Jennifer Ling:  Thank you guys for all coming today. Basically, some things that we want to reiterate is we gave you guys numbers just for confidentiality. If you don't want us to use your name then that's fine, we can use your number. If you don't mind us using your name then that's great too. [laughs]
That's why we have the nametags. Just an icebreaker activity, one thing that I would like to know is what your name is, what your favorite place on campus is and what year you are and also where you're from.
Judy:  Hi, I'm Judy. I am a freshman. My favorite place on campus is probably the gardens because they're beautiful. I'm from Raleigh, North Carolina.
Jennifer:  Nice.
Mae:  My name is Mae. I'm a sophomore. My favorite place is probably the study room on my floor. I like that place. I'm from Winston‑Salem, North Carolina.
Eva:  My name is Eva. I'm also a sophomore. My favorite place on campus, I [inaudible 01:29] . What was the other question?
Jennifer:  Where are you from?
Female Participant:  I'm from Seoul, South Korea.
Jennifer:  Oh, nice.
Michaela:  Hi, my name is Michaela. I'm a sophomore from Norwood, Massachusetts. My favorite place on campus is probably the park.
Kimberly:  Hi, I'm Kimberly. I'm a sophomore. My favorite place on campus is probably the Innovation Lab and I'm from Nashville, Tennessee.
Michelle:  I'm Michelle. I'm a junior from Long Island, New York. My favorite place on campus I think is the third floor of [inaudible 02:09] .
Jennifer:  Oh, wow. Nice. My name is Jennifer and I'm a sophomore. I'm from New Jersey. This is Camilla. She's also a sophomore and she's from...
Camilla:  Colombia.
Jennifer:  My favorite place on campus is actually the Bryan Center mostly because I have a lot of classes so I go there and take naps most of the time. Other than that, I really like the Bryan Center. What about you?
Camilla:  My favorite place on campus is the music library on East. Some people don't know it exists, so I love that.
Jennifer:  Now that we've done that, moving on.
Camilla:  Just one little thing I wanted to say before we start. We are recording. It's right here. I'm actually going to move it to over here. It's a pretty good recorder but if you can speak up a little. Not like nothing unnatural, just a good tone of voice. It's super important for us to later be able to transcribe this.
Jennifer:  Moving on. Basically, the reason why we've invited you guys here today is really to talk about the Intro STEM courses here at Duke.
As you guys probably have noticed that a lot of STEM courses have been introducing active learning techniques into the classroom like flipped classroom, team‑based learning, iclickers. We really want to know what you guys think about these active learning techniques and how it affects your self‑efficacy.
One thing about active learning that a lot people might not have noticed about it is that active learning comes in many different forms. Active learning can be like if you're in Organic Chemistry Lab, you're going to do lab. You're engaging yourself in lab and you're actually participating in learning about, or doing the reactions that are happening that you're learning about.
Other things like raising your hand and answering the teacher's questions, that's also another form of active learning.
Some other forms of active learning that you guys have heard about is like flipped classroom, team‑based learning, all that stuff. Moving on, we have some pictures for you depicting what active learning is and what the traditional lecture is like.
Over here, I don't know if you guys can really see this. We wanted to use the monitor but it wasn't really working. Over here, as you can see there's active learning and lecture.
Over here, there, again, like I said before, they're using the clickers. On the other side is the traditional lecture setting. Then here you have peers actually engaging in conversation, doing problems on the board, whereas over here, you have the traditional lecture yet again.
Here peers are interacting with the professors, talking about the questions. At the other side there's the traditional lecture setting.
Basically, our first question really is a hypothetical situation. Suppose it's your first day of Chem 101 class. You come in, you sit down, there's a big auditorium, and your professor says, "It's up to you guys to decide what kind of learning, or active learning, or traditional learning that you would like to implement."
If you guys would take out the handouts that you got, which says which mix of lectures and active learning you would feel is best, if you can circle which choice you would like, go ahead and do that.
After you've read the question, we just want to know what you guys think about mixing up lecture or doing totally active learning or doing totally lectures. Maybe starting with Judy?
Judy:  I said half and half, because I think you need the lecture to learn the notes and the material, but then you also need the discussion and the lab to actually learn how to apply that to the real world.
Female Participant:  I said mostly lecture because sometimes I feel like the introductory STEM courses, the labs don't necessarily complement the things that you learn. I know that during, say, a flipped classroom, even though it's flipped, the lecture notes that they have you watch online are not exactly what the professor wants you to learn. You have to sit through a lot.
I'd definitely rather have a mostly lecture class and just a little bit of active learning.
Jennifer:  Good.
Female Participant:  I also have mostly lecture. I had the flipped classrooms twice in high school, and it ended up being doing the lab during class time and then having to learn everything, watching videos that our teachers would make, outside of class time. It just ended up being double the amount of work. It evidently didn't work out.
But lecture works best in some cases, if the professor's good. It's really a matter of do you learn better by learning it yourself or if you learn better by having someone else tell you what it is.
Female Participant:  I said half and half because it's definitely important for me to have a professor teach the material, rather than learn it all on my own. But at the same time, having a chance to apply what I'm learning, especially in STEM courses, is very important to actually knowing the material. Sitting through lecture, I'm not going to passively learn everything that I need to know.
The classes that I've been most successful in have been half and half.
Female Participant:  I also said half and half. I think a lot of it depends on the teacher, because if you have a really great teacher, like I don't know how many of you guys have had Dr. Roy, but he's fantastic. He's so good. You want to hear him talk versus doing problems, whereas another teacher who's not as good, you'd probably rather learn the material yourself on Khan Academy or something.
I think a mix is good, because in a pure lecture class, I usually start to zone off. You lose track of what you actually know and what you're just going in one ear and out the other.
Female Participant:  I said half and half. For the introductory STEM classes that sometimes don't have labs, like math classes or whatever, I find it helpful if I know the theory behind everything before I start doing questions, just because personally I get tripped up by the fact, "I don't know the theory behind this. I can't do this question."
But then, also for classes with a lab component, I find myself learning more writing the lab report, because I'm trying to find a way to explain it so that I can understand it and so that it makes sense.
Jennifer:  That's great.
Camilla:  I want to make a comment. The idea is that you also engage with each other's answers. We don't necessarily have to go in a round. You can to respond to whatever other person.
You don't even have to raise your hand. Just comment on other's people's. How do you feel about what the other person said and stuff? This is a conversation more between you than with us, really.
Jennifer:  Also, whatever you guys say here, or if you're in a STEM course right now, none of this information will go to your professors or anything. This is definitely a free space. If you have certain opinions and certain feelings, definitely feel free to discuss them.
The next question that we have is basically which types of active learning have you guys encountered? That could be like iclickers or team‑based learning, flipped classroom. We just want to gauge how much active learning you guys have been exposed to. It's open to the floor. Whoever wants to start.
Female Participant:  I've seen flipped classroom, iclickers, team‑based, problems in class. That's what I've seen, thus far.
Female Participant:  Our chemistry class is broken up into lecture, discussion, and lab. Every week, for an hour, we go and we do three problems as a group. Does that count?
Jennifer:  Yeah. That definitely counts.
Female Participant:  I think that's really helpful because the tests are how the problems and discussion are, so it helps to do it with people.
Jennifer:  Anybody else?
Female Participant:  I've never had a flipped classroom, but I've done iclickers and then problem‑solving with teams.
Female Participant:  I haven't had a flipped classroom at Duke, but I've got a range. There's some courses that's purely lecture, and then there are other courses, like Bass Connections, it's purely active learning. There's no lecture.
Jennifer:  Bass Connections?
Female Participant:  Yeah.
Jennifer:  Which Bass Connections do you do?
Female Participant:  I'm in the feasibility study of anaerobic digester. We are writing a scoping document this semester, i.e., no lecture. It's all active learning.
Jennifer:  Then what kind of active learning do you do?
Female Participant:  It's all team‑based. We, as a team, the students as a team, have to work to find what's the scope of the scoping document, like what information do we need for the next semester's feasibility study. Lots of hands‑on active thinking. We have to come up with some of our own deadlines. It's been interesting. It's been good.
Jennifer:  Anybody else?
Female Participant:  I've never had a flipped classroom, either. I've had iclickers, labs, lab reports with groups, discussion sessions for various classes. Also certain lectures, professors, they have us discuss problems in class, like during lecture. I didn't have that last year, but in a lot of my classes this year, professors have done that.
That's actually been really helpful, in terms of keeping with the lecture as a top thing, rather than just [inaudible 13:01] .
Female Participant:  Can I comment on the efficacy of the...?
Jennifer:  Yeah, definitely go ahead.
Female Participant:  I know that during Chem 110, it was like a flipped classroom, and we had team‑based things. But I felt like some of the team‑based things here, like during chem, were really stressful, and only like one person does the work, and then I don't end up learning what the goal actually was for team‑based learning, anyway.
Female Participant:  I've heard bad things about Chem 110.
[laughter]
Female Participant:  That about sums it up. But I do like Dr. Roy, physics, his discussion section's like the problems during class. He does those. Problems during class are very helpful.
Female Participant:  His discussion to me is the perfect mix of active and lecture, because he'll go over the concepts, and then you work with the people at your table. But it's very not stressful, because if you don't do the problem, it's like he doesn't care. But you obviously want to do the problems so that you understand it. It's great. It's the best experience I've had with active learning.
Female Participant:  I feel like it mainly depends on the professor, though. Just because I took a class last semester where the professor tried to do the whole iclicker thing for active learning and for attendance. But he gave up on it after two weeks, before drop‑add had even ended, he just completely stopped doing it.
Camilla:  Quickly, I'm going to introduce Helen. Helen, this is everyone. It's a discussion. Jennifer will be asking some questions, so feel free to jump in whenever you want. Just write your name. Keep going.
Jennifer:  Moving on. I know Mae touched a little bit on self‑efficacy. We're going to move on to more self‑efficacy and more confidence questions. What we really want to know or want to ask is how you feel or how confident you feel about the grade that you're going to be getting in a certain STEM class.
Female Participant:  For the math classes, it's not transparent at all. I don't know what my grade is, because it's the final. They say it counts for a huge portion, but they don't tell us percentages or how much it counts for anything, so I honestly have no idea what I'm going to get. [laughs]
Female Participant:  Are you talking about Multi?
Female Participant:  No, Diff‑EQ.
Female Participant:  I remember in Multi, midterms did not count at all. Your final grade was 99 percent your final and like one percent, did you do your homework, did you pass the test, the midterm exams.
Female Participant:  I think that was also very up to the professor, though. Some professors say straight up, "It's all the final." My professor actually gave me percentages for what each midterm was.
Female Participant:  Also been I've been told by a couple professors that math, when the Math Department assigns letter grades to students, they do it based on a ranking. Like, if you have 20 people in your class, the first four are going to get As, the next four are going to get Bs, et cetera.
I feel like you can't really know it. If that's how the entire Math Department assigns grades, then I feel like you wouldn't ever know what you would get, unless you knew everyone else's grade.
Jennifer:  How does that make you feel? Does that make you feel less confident in, for example, getting an A or getting a B? How do you approach that?
Female Participant:  Despair.
[laughter]
Female Participant:  It's hard to feel confident in any subject when you make a 45 on the test. Even if that's the average grade, you don't feel like you actually understood the material if you're getting less than half of it right.
Female Participant:  I feel like some of the introductory math courses design it so that you fail, and it's confusing. The test averages are much lower as opposed to Multi or Diff‑EQ. I feel like I'm definitely less confident in those materials.
Female Participant:  From experience, it was really difficult to know my grades mid‑semester. If my parents asked me, "What do you think you are going to get in this course?" I'd be like, "It can range anywhere from A to a C." Actually, though, it's very difficult to tell where you are in class.
You can have a vague idea, but because the final is such a huge percentage, which is both a good and a bad thing that means that you always have time to recover if you flunk one of your midterms. But at the same time that also means that you have no idea how you're doing in class.
Female Participant:  For our chem midterm, our final grade is based on lab and discussion and homework and all this stuff. But our chem midterm that we were given online was only based on one test, the very first test we took. They didn't calculate anything else. I don't know what I have in that class at all.
Female Participant:  Only two of my four classes even gave midterm grades.
Female Participant:  No midterm grades?
Female Participant:  The only midterm grade I got was for a humanities class.
Jennifer:  Any other comments? No? How is your confidence affected by the professor that you have? Does it affect your confidence a lot, or does it affect your confidence very little?
Female Participant:  I would say the professor only affects confidence as far as how well they can teach. If they're teaching well, then I'm more confident in the material. But it's not like if I don't understand it and they're still a good teacher then that would automatically make me more confident.
Female Participant:  It's also if they're more approachable and you can talk to them about what you're struggling with, what the material is, whatever, how you might end up doing in the class. If they're approachable and they have a good attitude, then you feel more confident. Generally, they want you to do well.
Female Participant:  I agree. Especially if a teacher has a lot of office hours, I feel more confident that I can go to them if I have problems. Versus, I've had some teachers who only had office hours by appointment. It's intimidating that if you have a certain thing, you need to email them.
Female Participant:  I agree with that.
Jennifer:  Besides your professors, now we're going to ask about the peers that you're with. Does your peers really affect your confidence levels in class?
Female Participant:  Yes.
Female Participant:  Definitely.
Jennifer:  Why?
Female Participant:  For Engineering 103, it was like one of the first couple weeks of class. Dr. G was awesome. He asked, "Raise your hand if you've ever coded in another language before that's not MATLAB." 75 percent of the class raised their hand. I've never done anything with computers in my life. I was really sad. That was not good. But, it's OK.
Female Participant:  If it makes you feel any better, that class was my first time coding, too. I ended up TAing for that class this semester.
Female Participant:  It was also my first time coding. I did well in the class.
Female Participant:  Mine, too, so don't feel bad.
Female Participant:  I think you're honestly on a level playing field in the fact that people who've coded in other languages screw up the syntax.
There's someone in my lab, actually this year, he didn't remember anything from EGR 103. He was asking me how to say certain MATLAB syntaxes, because he's like, "Oh, I don't know MATLAB that well. I know this other language."
Jennifer:  Anybody else want to comment?
Female Participant:  People talk after exams happen, "Oh, this sucked," or, "That one went pretty well." That obviously affects your perception of how you did. Sometimes I walk out of a midterm feeling like, "Oh my God. I didn't know anything." Then talking to people who thought it was OK, obviously you feel bad about yourself, because you're like, "I thought it was hard and no one else did."
Jennifer:  I guess this goes back to active learning and traditional lectures and comparing them. Do you feel more affected by your peers when you're in an active learning kind of setting, or in a traditional lecture setting?
Female Participant:  I feel like sometimes during study groups, if I'm preparing for a test with five other people from my class, I'll get really panicked and nervous if I feel like I'm so far behind on material. Like, "Oh, they know so much. I can't even read this problem." That makes me feel a lot less confident.
At the same time, Duke has this thing with effortless perfection. You'll never see anyone else struggle. You just think it's yourself.
Female Participant:  I think active learning shows, especially with iclicker questions, everyone, when you're discussing it, seems to like, "Oh yeah it's this or this." You're like, "OK. Sure. I don't actually know exactly what's going on." You don't feel as confident.
Study groups can also be that way. I actually usually feel more confident because usually you know that someone understands the concept in the group. You can figure it out together.
Female Participant:  I think active learning is better if you want your peers to help you, especially with like writing a group lab report. If I don't know the material, but someone else does, and she can explain to me, that's great.
Like in physics recitation with Dr. Roy, if someone at the table knows how to do it, and can explain to me how to do it, I'm like, "OK. That's great. Thank you." Whereas in lecture, you don't be able to have the experience, unless you're specifically studying with a group afterwards.
Jennifer:  Any other comments, questions? What about your professor? Would you rather your professor just lecture you? How much professor interaction do you think you'd get in a traditional lecture setting compared to an active learning setting?
Female Participant:  I think a lot of it's dependent on the professor and the class size. Like if it's a small class, you're going to interact with them more, versus like a 200‑person lecture. Sometimes I think it's better to not have that much interaction if the professor's not very good.
Female Participant:  I think it's also true if your time is short. For instance, Dr. Bray is a great lecturer. But I don't know if you'd have been able to cover all the material if it was an active class, active learning.
For me it was great that it was lecture, because he knew what he was talking about. He was making sure that I could understand what he was talking about. It wasn't active learning. Yet, I liked it better that way. I think it really depends on the professor. There's definitely been other professors that I'm like, "Your lecture doesn't really help."
[laughter]
Jennifer:  Any other questions, comments about the previous questions, or just in general self‑efficacy and active learning, or traditional lectures?
Camilla:  I think we want to also know about feedback. How much feedback do you think you're getting from your professors when you're in a lecture? Compare that to when you're in active learning.
Not from your peers, because you just told us a little bit about how peers give you feedback. It may or may not be right. How do you think professors, in what ways, literally what methods are professors using to give you feedback? Is it enough? Does it make you feel good or bad? Does it make you feel confident or not confident?
Female Participant:  Would it be personal feedback?
Camilla:  Feedback on you, it could be. Feedback on how you're doing. You were telling us before about your grades, and how you feel like you don't know your grade. That is a type of feedback. There are other types of feedback that professors give us through cues, comments in class. You tell us. Where do you think professors are giving you feedback in?
Female Participant:  During lecture or just overall in the class?
Jennifer:  Overall.
Camilla:  Anything.
Jennifer:  Yeah, anything.
Female Participant:  When I was in one of the engineering physics classes last year, I did really badly on both exams. I ended up spending two to three hours every week with the professor, just doing practice problems with him. He would make me lecture him instead. He would tell me if I was wrong or not. Otherwise, I feel like that was pretty helpful.
Camilla:  Was that office hours?
Female Participant:  I guess extra office hours. They weren't official. I would meet with him one‑on‑one, then do questions from old final exams until the end of the semester.
Camilla:  Did that make you feel more confident?
Female Participant:  Yeah.
Camilla:  Try to separate it from if it helped you pass. Did it make you feel like you could?
Female Participant:  I think so, mainly because I knew I knew the information, but I just for some reason wasn't testing well. Being able to explain it back to the professor made me feel like, "Oh, I actually know what's happening in this class."
Female Participant:  I think that a lot of times just non‑numerical feedback makes you a lot more confident. For example in the iclicker questions, my BME teacher will tell us the percentages.
Generally, the percentage is like 80 to 90 to 100 percent of people get it right. If you're that 20 or 10 percent, you're like, "Wow, I really suck." If the teacher's just like, "Good job," or, "You need to work on that," it's like, "OK, whatever."
Female Participant:  I like it when teachers ask a question. You may not have hit on the right answer, but you're in the general direction. They don't completely shut you down. They can expand on it rather than just being like, "No. You're wrong."
It makes you feel better. It makes you feel like I understand the material a little bit. That's kind of like feedback rather than just shutting you down. They give you a little boost in confidence like, "You're almost there."
Female Participant:  I think active learning is definitely a lot better for getting feedback. I'm going to go back to Dr. Roy because he's amazing. When we do problems, he'll walk around and tell us, "Oh, you forgot to divide by two here."
Or when he hands exams back, he'll comment, "Good," or, "You did fine on all sections, but circular motion." Things like that. I'll be like, "Oh, so that's what I need to work on. Oh, so that's how I'm doing in the class." Those are really helpful in terms of knowing where I am.
Camilla:  Does that make you feel more confident that you're going to be able to do it eventually even if you got it wrong?
Female Participant:  I think it goes both ways. It makes me feel more confident about knowing what kind of grade I'm going to get. It also makes me more confident in making sure I know the material well. Like, "Oh, I have the general concept, but I suck at math, so I need to work on that." That kind of thing.
Female Participant:  Go ahead.
Female Participant:  No. You go ahead. I went first last time. [laughs]
Female Participant:  One of my classes, like BME 244, Dr. Wallace on [inaudible 29:39] , he's very good at responding to people's posts. For classes in previous semesters no one ever posted or responded. For this class in particular it's actually super helpful. For lab reports, people post questions. Students will also discuss. But then Dr. Wallace points us in the right direction, which is really helpful.
Female Participant:  I actually get annoyed by Dr. Wallace's responses. I'm all for the Socratic method, and figuring things out yourself, but one time someone posted a question. His response was, "What do you think and why?"
I was thinking to myself, "If they ask the question, obviously they already thought about that and they didn't know." A lot of times, he'll give these really vague responses. Sometimes that just adds more frustration.
I've had some teachers, like a lot of my ECE professors of Piazza and the TAs will post. I do agree Piazza was helpful. I don't like when teachers use it to be vague and try to make you figure it out.
Female Participant:  Yeah. Sometimes when he does answer, "What do you think and why?" I was like, "That is not helpful in any way." But when he does answer...
Female Participant:  Yeah. When he answers, it's actually really helpful.
Female Participant:  Did any of you take Physics 152?
Female Participant:  I'm taking it right now.
Female Participant:  I'm taking it right now.
Female Participant:  You know Dr. Barlow was like, "I don't know how your curve will be determined. I'm just going to put certain values on certain questions, but I'm not going to tell you how I'm going to do that. But it's not going to be a raw grade. But if any of you ask me how the class is curved, you're going to go on my bad list."
Female Participant:  I wish it was more transparent.
Female Participant:  Last year, after maybe the first midterm, he sent out a breakdown of what the letter grades were. An A was a 94.8.
Female Participant:  What? No.
Female Participant:  That was the cutoff. All the really, really smart kids, who had taken physics before, would all get As. At the same time it was really bad for anyone that didn't know what was happening, which was me.
Female Participant:  That's so dumb.
Camilla:  Did that make you feel less confident that you could eventually complete the next level of physics or even your career as an engineer?
Female Participant:  That class, actually, made me thought about switching about, just because I had failed both exams. But he was actually the professor who let me come in two mornings a week to work with him.
Camilla:  Talk about that. Do you feel he was on one side making you feel different from the other side?
Female Participant:  This is just his personality, I think. But I feel like when he's lecturing, he wants everyone to like him. He acts like a jerk, so people think he's funny and they like him. But if you talk to him one‑on‑one, he's actually really nice and really approachable.
He really wants you to understand what's happening in the class, like theory‑wise, and he wants to help you do well, actually understand the problem, learn problem‑solving skills. When I was meeting with him one‑on‑one, he actually was explaining to me how to walk through a problem. I actually still use that method now for other classes.
Female Participant:  I feel the same way. One time, he came in to sub in for my discussion instructor. I'd never talked to him one‑on‑one before, but he walked around the groups and was a lot more helpful than my usual instructor was, just because the way he explained it, it was just really helpful. I felt better about taking the quiz at the end of discussion, and I did better on it, too.
Camilla:  You had something to say?
Female Participant:  I think it was a long time ago. I think we've moved on. I was just going to say that...
Jennifer:  Go ahead.
Female Participant:  ...most of my lectures, because they're so big right now, most of the feedback comes from TAs, which sometimes it's helpful, but then sometimes it isn't, because they don't make the tests. [laughs] But Dr. Roy, I don't go, but Dr. Roy for chemistry, he holds office hours Sunday nights in his apartment, which I think is really cool.
Jennifer:  That actually brought up an interesting point. How do you guys feel about the TAs that you interact with?
Female Participant:  It completely depends on the class. Actually, physics in particular, I've had for my lab TAs have been absolutely atrocious, and my biology TA, awful. He didn't understand any of our questions and wouldn't answer them.
But then I've also had good TAs. My ECE‑110 TA for lab and stuff was good. A lot of the graduate student TAs, like in the physics help room, they're awesome. They help you a lot. I've had some very bad experiences, but some good ones, as well.
Female Participant:  I think beyond the course, I think it's mostly dependent on the TAs. Even within the same course, I've had both really good and really bad TAs.
Female Participant:  Same. My lab TA for chemistry is really snobby, like if you ask him anything, he'll just give you attitude because he thinks you should know it already. But my discussion TA is the best person ever. She's really nice, and she's really good at explaining things.
Camilla:  Do you feel like it helps to have those discussion sections where you can have the TA? Do you feel they help you feel more confident that you can eventually learn whatever you didn't understand in the lecture?
Female Participant:  I think it only helps if the TA is good.
Female Participant:  Yeah.
Female Participant:  It really depends on how the TA runs the different sections. Like if it's lecture, or is it more like discussion.
Sometimes, we will have TAs that will be like, "Do you have any questions on the homework?" and none of the students will say anything. It'll just [inaudible 36:04] . But there are also some TAs who lecture for the entire time. I think it really depends on...
Camilla:  How do others feel about discussion sections becoming mini lectures with someone who's actually not the professor? Do they become like lectures?
Female Participant:  For math, I don't really like it. I'm in Linear right now, and for discussion, sometimes people ask questions on the homework, and the TA will just put the answer on the board, basically, which doesn't really help learn it. But people ask because they don't know it, and they need to turn in the homework.
Then, if no one has questions, my TA just talks about topics that we haven't talked about in lecture yet, which is just unnecessary and also useless. It's dumb, because we don't learn anything because we haven't learned enough to actually learn the next material, but he'll still lecture on it. It's a waste of time.
Female Participant:  Physics discussion is the most amazing thing ever. I don't go to lecture, and I do my homework instead, because I actually get more confused in lecture. I actually stopped after the first test and I did 20 points better on the test not having gone to any of the lectures, instead just using the discussion time.
I think that for that class, it's essential. I don't think I would understand any of the material if not for Dr. Roy/discussion.
Camilla:  What class is that where you're not going to lecture?
Female Participant:  Physics 152. I actually think more people don't go to lecture in that class than do. It's a 100‑person class, and I think about 30 people...
Female Participant:  It's more than that. I actually go to lecture, because it's getting a little bit better. I actually like his style of lecture, but not a lot of people go to that lecture. It's true. They just rely on discussion.
Female Participant:  I see the people who have Dr. Roy for discussion don't go to lecture, but a lot of other people do because their instructors are not on the same level.
Camilla:  When you walk out of a discussion section, how do you feel, usually? What's your confidence level at, your frustration? Are you frustrated? Are you calmer? How's your confidence level after a lecture?
Female Participant:  Usually not so good for physics, because we have quizzes at the end.
[laughter]
Female Participant:  At first, they were like, "The quizzes are just going to be like the homework problems," but they never are. They're 20 times harder, I think. [laughs] Confidence level, not so great after discussion is what I would say.
Female Participant:  I think there's disparities among physics because I generally go into my physics discussion sometimes not knowing what chapter we're doing, and I come out feeling great and like, "That quiz, I just aced it, because Dr. Roy is awesome." I think there's a disparity.
Female Participant:  Chemistry discussion, we don't get quizzed at the end, so it's very relaxed. We do maybe two or three problems over the course of an hour. It really gives you a lot of time to talk with your group and learn. I like it.
Female Participant:  For me, most of the discussions have been practically meaningless. Some of them just became office hours, so if I don't have questions, I'm like, "Why should I go in the first place?" The only discussions sections that I found to be actually helpful were Dr. Roy's recitation sections, because I will walk in and be like, "I am so confused about everything."
Then he will give us a lecture, and then he'll make us do problems, and I'm like, "I actually understand what is going on." Those are helpful. Otherwise, I'm just like, "Whatever."
Female Participant:  That's actually the only discussion that I've actually gone to.
Female Participant:  Normally I find that discussions are not helpful, because the TA doesn't know what they're talking about, or there's too many people who are just asking questions about unrelated topics, or it's not structured well, any number of things.
Female Participant:  For math discussion, people only come in for the attendance. It's 50 minutes, and most people usually show up 40 minutes into class, and the TA just doesn't care. It's just a waste of time, honestly.
Jennifer:  Do you want to add anything else? Or do you guys have any other opinions, comments?
Camilla:  In general, about how STEM courses affect, how they're taught affect your confidence levels, how you feel about being an engineer as a major, as a potential career in your life?
Female Participant:  This is my last math class at Duke, I'm almost done with. I've taken all three of the engineering things. I think that the school would really benefit from making it more engineering‑focused or having engineering professors have more input on what the department does.
My Multi teacher hated physics, so whenever we learned a concept, he would be like, "OK, guys, I don't actually care that you know what the physical meaning of this is. You don't have to know what it means. Just solve the equation."
When I actually start learning this stuff in physics, Dr. Roy will tell us, "You're never actually going to need to do that complicated math. You'll use that for a calculator. You need to understand what it means."
Then now, in Diff‑EQ we're learning a bunch of forms that my teacher has even been like, "You're never going to be able to use the simple form, because the numbers in engineering are going to be more complicated." But yet we haven't learned any of the real applications of anything.
Female Participant:  I feel like some upper‑level engineering classes are still prereqs or major requirements. I don't want to say they're not taught well, but the professors just tend to go through the textbook and outline it for us. Then, there's one class I'm in where we're actually like two weeks behind, so we haven't done any application, and I know that.
The class is really easy right now, just because we're doing textbook. But I know that next semester, I'm going to really regret it, because I'm going to be so behind, compared to people who took the other class that could have counted towards the major.
Female Participant:  I think for courses that are taught by different professors, like Multi or Cellular Mechanics, there should be a better congruity among how professors teach, because I thought Multi was the most awful class ever. I was like, "I'm going to drop out of Pratt." But people that had some of the better professors really liked it. If people had Dr. Bray or Dr. Roy, they were like, "Multi's fine."
Then, there was me. I was like, "No, it's not."
[laughter]
Female Participant:  I was the same way.
Female Participant:  Then, Cellular Mechanics, the tests are really different. You get some professors, it's open book, open notes. Or some professors, it's closed book, closed notes, but sometimes you're allowed a cheat sheet. It really depends. I don't think it'd be fair for people to be graded on the same subject if that was taught so differently.
Camilla:  Why did you want to drop out after Multi?
Female Participant:  Multi? I've never been that good at calculus, and Multi was just awful. I had no idea what was going on. [laughs] That was awful. But after that course, I realized that how much of your grade was based on the final, because after my final grade, the course grade came out, I was like, "I was actually doing better than I thought," but it was only because of the final.
After that, no matter what I get on the midterm, I'm like, "I'll be fine. I'll just do better on the final."
Camilla:  I just want to follow up on that because I think it's interesting. When you felt that you'd done super bad, you just felt like, "I won't be able to go through the rest of engineering," or you just felt like whatever? What did you feel? Why was a bad grade...?
Female Participant:  Multi's actual midterm was super, super bad for me, and after I thought, "Am I fit to be in Pratt? Am I fit to be an engineer who's supposed to do these calculations like the back of my hand, but I can't? Am I capable enough of being an engineer?" After going through the entire semester.
Then, I really liked the linear algebra, so after that, I was like, "Multi just happened to be a part of math that I really, really hated." Diff EQ was fine for me, too. Taking more courses after that, I'm more confident that I would actually like what I'll be doing later, only if I have to use those kinds of math.
Jennifer:  Has anybody else felt that way before in any of their courses or classes?
Female Participant:  Actually, for Multi, as well. Multi was really terrible for the midterms. Then, the final wasn't so bad. [laughs] Basically just brought my grade up with the final. But at the time, I was like, "What did I get myself into?"
Jennifer:  Did you ever feel like you were about to drop out of Pratt because of that?
Female Participant:  I was never about to drop out of Pratt. I came in knowing that I wanted to be an engineer. I was very determined about that. It wasn't like I was going to drop out of Pratt, but I was just alarmed at how difficult I was perceiving it to be.
Female Participant:  I've thought about dropping out of Pratt, also because of Multi. I think it's taught way too fast. I don't like rushed learning. The only reason that it's not really an option is because I don't see myself doing anything else.
Jennifer:  Anybody else?
Camilla:  I have a question about grades. Do you think that in some ways getting a good grade but you weren't really sure what you were doing in it is better? What is better, that or somewhere you got a not‑so‑good grade, but you feel like when you get a problem, you're like, "I know how to approach this," even if it's a bad grade? What would you prefer to have?
Female Participant:  The first option.
Female Participant:  The first one.
Female Participant:  In the classroom, it's supposed to be all about the learning process. That's just supposed to make you feel good, but at the end of the day, I think it's just the grade. The higher the grade you have, the more it affects your confidence level.
Female Participant:  Also if you have a low grade, but you thought that you knew what you were doing, that's a big confidence hit. Then, you're like, "Man, I thought I knew what I was doing. Clearly, I don't."
Female Participant:  That's the worst thing ever.
[laughter]
Female Participant:  To me, as long as make above average on the exam, I'm happy with it. If it's a little bit below average, but I felt like I didn't really know the material that well, then I also feel good. We had a test recently that I thought I probably made 20 or 30 points below average, but I only made five points below average. I was like, "Yes." [laughs] I shouldn't be excited about that, but I was.
Female Participant:  For me, I actually prefer the latter. But what happens is that if you actually know the material, and if you actually studied, there's no way you would actually do that bad. That's not that true, because I did study for Multi. I just did terrible on it.
But in high school, I was doing really well in calculus, but they didn't require homework, so I never did any homework, it was just cramming the night before. I had zero foundation when I came to Duke, and that's why I suffered through so much of Multi, because I didn't have a good calculus foundation.
After that, it made me realize that you need to know what you're doing right now, in order to take the next step which is preparing you to actually work.
If I'm doing bad in cellular mechanics ‑‑ which I kind of am right now ‑‑ then I get worried, because if I have to build a building later on and I don't know this material, then I know that I'll build a building that's going to fail, and that's not a good thing.
Even if I get a bad grade, I would be happy if I was confident that I could design something without having it fail. But if I could do that, then I would also pass the course. I think it goes back to [inaudible 48:39] .
Jennifer:  Is there anything else you want to add to?
Camilla:  No. Do you guys?
Jennifer:  Do you guys have any other questions or comments, opinions?
Female Participant:  I have one last thing. Now it's OK, because I finally started taking some actual courses and doing things outside of class, but I feel like, especially compared to my friends at other engineering schools, you don't really get, in class, a real engineering experience until you get older.
At Northwestern, the first year, they have this course where you work in groups to design some type of project. Yes, you don't really have any engineering skills, but you get that teamwork experience. I don't know. I feel like in ECE‑110 you had that, but first semester, you really aren't taking a real...There's MATLAB, but that's not really project‑based or anything like that.
I wish Duke had something more like that.
Female Participant:  I agree with that. My sister's a freshman in BME at a different school. She's taking her first BME design class now, before I've even taken any BME design classes, which I won't do until senior year.
I feel like it's helpful to actually get a more of a hands‑on kind of experience, like what actually is BME? What are you doing? Instead of just being like, "I'm just going to do two years of prereqs, and then figure it out later."
Then, at that point, I actually have a couple friends who want to switch out of Pratt, but they think it's too late, just because they've done all the prereqs, they're almost done with the major. But right now is when they're starting to figure out, "This is what you're actually going to be learning, what you're going to be doing."
Female Participant:  I think it's particularly bad for BMEs, because of the way the curriculum's scheduled.
Female Participant:  I feel that. I'm glad that I realized that I like BME, because I've just now taken my first BME class as a sophomore. I'm already done with all the prereqs, so I wouldn't want to switch out.
Female Participant:  I realized I didn't like BME as much as I thought I did, but thankfully, there's a lot of co‑reqs of BME and ECE, and I really like ECE, so I'm OK with that. But had I realized, "I want to civil engineering, or I want to do some non‑thing," I agree, it feels like it's too late. Even as a first‑semester sophomore, it feels like it's too late to switch out.
Female Participant:  I have a friend who switched from BME to civil sophomore year. She has been overloading every semester since then. Next semester is going to be the first semester she's taking a normal four‑course load in like two years.
Female Participant:  For me, too. At the end of last year, I was not sure I wanted to do engineering, just because not just grades, but also because I was like, "This is boring just taking bio and chem and physics." Then like this semester, no, they're not super advanced classes, but ECE‑110 and BME‑244, I realized I actually like what's being taught.
When we talk about potential applications of engineering in BME‑244, we're not doing anything, we're just learning the physiology, but at the same time, I can see myself enjoying that in the future. It's good now. I realized I also do want to pursue my interest in humanities classes, so I'm doing the minor in linguistics.
I did [inaudible 52:25] first semester, so that helped me figure that out. But I know a lot of other Pratt students have realized they have a passion for some humanities courses later on, and they can only take a few classes in that. That's limiting in some ways, I guess.
Female Participant:  Pratt curriculum definitely does not encourage taking extra humanities classes.
Jennifer:  Do you have any other questions?
Camilla:  Nope.
Jennifer:  I don't have any other questions, either.
Camilla:  Thank you so much. Thank you for coming.
Jennifer:  Thank you.
Camilla:  Everything you said is super helpful. It's super good to hear what you have to say, because it is sometimes different, sometimes the same as what we think. You're the experts here, really.
Thank you so much for coming. Now we can give you your gift cards, so just stick around. You can start picking up your stuff, and we'll pass you that. Thanks.
Jennifer:  Also feel free to take more food, if you guys feel hungry.
