Camilla:  Welcome. Thanks for coming again and for taking the time to be here. I'm Camilla. I hadn't introduced myself. My name is Camilla Argos. I am a sophomore, as you've already heard. I'm a Psych major.
Jennifer:  I'm Jennifer. I'm a sophomore as well and I have no idea what I'm going to be majoring yet so I'll get back to you on that.
[laughter]
Camilla:  I'll be moderating the conversation and then Jennifer will be taking notes. She may jump in and some things. The reason why you have the numbers because your data will be disassociated from you later, from your names and everything. Whatever notes we take are going to be with your number.
The recordings will have your number instead of your name. We're audio recording. I'm going to put this a little bit further. It's a good recorder so there's no need to yell. Just keep in mind that if you speak clearly, it would be easier for the transcripts later.
I want to remind you, this is an informal conformal. It's really about you talking to each other and telling us a little bit about your experience. There are no right or wrong answers. It's about how you feel curative with your sub courses and the classes we're going to ask.
It's not that you have to answer the questions to us specifically, answer each other, and just jump in if you have a comment on what someone else said. No need to raise your hand or anything. Just jump in like how the conversation between you.
Before we start, also that, it's easier to talk between to each other. We wanted everyone to introduce themselves. Say your name and favorite place in campus, where do you like to go? My name is Camilla, as I said and my favorite place on campus is the music library, on this campus. You go.
Participant:  My name is Alex and my favorite place on campus, probably library. It's pretty cooler.
Participant:  I'm Ryan, probably that big tower on top of the NFU Squad. I don't know is you guys have any idea what I'm talking about.
[laughter]
Participant:  I don't know. It's cool.
Camilla:  OK.
Participant:  I'm Jeff. I like quadaling even. Oh, I don't really have a favorite place but I guess my room. I don't know.
[laughter]
Camilla:  You will get more favorite places this time as it goes. The reason why we are here is because we want to talk to you about active learning in the classroom specifically in the introductory sub courses and your sub courses. You're all taking some engineering's and you've taken introductory sub courses. We need you to think back to that and say how you felt, why you've had it.
If you have one out, great. To have in mind, this does not go to your professors at all. Don't be afraid to say anything. None of your professors will know. If you have something that's good or bad, don't worry about it.
Active learning is a type of teaching. It's a methodology of teaching. We want to go over a little bit about what it is. Sometimes it creates confusing ideas. Active learning is anything that engages the student and makes him think what he's doing in the classroom.
For example, we have a lot of some pictures that you can visualize what it is, lets you be to this kind of environment? Can you see back there?
Participant:  Yeah.
Camilla:  This kind of environment would be a lecture and this kind of environment; they're using, for example, clickers. It would be active learning because they have to think about what they are doing. Another one, for example, the team works and group discussions would also be an active learning activity while the lecture, the normal kind of teaching.
Another type would be small groups, maybe lab discussions and then normal lecture. Do you have any question about what active learning is? Some of the other examples, labs you're actually doing things with chemicals or stuff. I don't do that. That would be considered active learning.
For example, the professor is in class and even if it's a big "Huh?" but they ask a question for you to sit down and think. Sometimes the professors go, "Oh, talk to the person that's beside you about this and then let us know what you think." Those are active learning activities. Some are bigger, some are smaller but they're all active learning.
To start, you all have this little sheet of paper that looks like this. The first thing before we start, we want you to look at the sheet and think about if, let's say, it's your first day of class next semester, for your classes hopefully. Maybe you're not taking into a class next semester. You get there and the professor gives you the choice.
Do you want to take an active learning class or a lecture? They gave you a scale. Think about and you're happy for telling us, where would you like the class to be? Between just 100 percent lecture and zero active learning towards 100 percent active learning and zero.
If you have a pen, maybe you can circle it down or just think about it for a second.
[pause]
Now, I want you to think why you chose that and tell us. Which one do you choose and why you chose that?
Participant:  I would go for half and a half because I think it's important. It activates you to different kinds of working skills. I think the lecture is more of you have to listen and you have to pay attention, take notes. For active learning, you use what you've learned and you build off that. Learn new things about that subject. Both are pretty important.
Participant:  I'd probably lean more towards the active learning, 75 percent, 25 percent lecture. Just because I know for me, personally, lectures aren't very interesting. It's hard for me to pay attention or really learn anything for that instance. Active learning, discussion, or labs, I actually care about that and learn and participate.
Participant:  I was going to say 75/25 the other way depending on the topics. I feel like a lot of intro courses you probably wouldn't have had much of the material before. It might be important for it to be lectured at you to have an idea. With certain examples to check your understanding. Also, hopefully with a larger lecture class, I know maybe I could miss a few classes and not be totally down the hole. I could still catch up later or look at notes and still figure it out.
Camilla:  Would you say there lectures would allow you to...
Participant:  I think so. I've actually never had an active learning class. I would assume that if you miss there's probably not a super easy way to go over what happened in the class, and get the same experience from reading stuff that you would have had you gone.
Participant:  I would have to say mostly lecture. I find that active learning classes sort of get bogged down in the active learning aspects. With intro classes, the material isn't necessarily that difficult. I feel like active learning would be better for classes where you get a little more involved in the material and it requires a little more effort to learn.
Camilla:  The easier classes, you think it would be better if they were a lecture.
Participant:  Yeah. For a lecture.
Camilla:  Can you give me an example of what you were saying, active learning they get too...
Participant:  Bogged down?
Camilla:  Bogged down.
Participant:  People are really slow with their iClickers. Sometimes we'll just wait eight minutes for two questions to be answered by a class. That really breaks the flow of the lecture.
Camilla:  Does someone else feel like that about those activities.
Participant:  I do. I've sat through a few classes where I have done some sort of pulling. Me and some of my friends would choose the more ridiculous answer every time just to screw up the results.
Participant:  In active.
Participant:  Right. Just having us be stupid college students could kind of get in the way of learning. [laughs]
Camilla:  Have any of you had a flip classroom at all? Flip classroom where you have to watch the videos at home. Then you go to class. It depends on the professor what you do.
Participant:  Yeah. I have Bio 202 with Professor Noor in the Spring.
Camilla:  What do you think about that one?
Participant:  Professor Noor is just a really great teacher in general. Bio 202 he was getting complaints that he was giving too many As. It wasn't that hard a class. It wasn't bad.
Camilla:  What other kinds of active learning have you had, that you have actually thought, "Oh. This is more engaging"?
Participant:  For me, Chemo 101 labs, I'm probably learning the most out of that just because I'm actually seeing what application the equations I'm learning are doing. I don't know. I put more effort into figuring out what I'm doing, and figuring out how to do the various equations, than I would in a lecture.
Participant:  Yeah. For my HR 103 lab, I feel like I really am able to learn the material better from that, because I'm actually putting those things I learn in theory into practice. I guess also I'm better learning from reading something and from actually doing it right there, as opposed to just listening to it. Sometimes the professor isn't clear.
Participant:  Coding classes are probably the most active learning I've ever had. You pretty much learn something, like how to write an algorithm or do some sort of process. Then you go home and have a homework assignment on it, and have to code it yourself.
Camilla:  Do you do anything in class with it?
Participant:  The Comp Sci 201 that I took, there wasn't much in action. Sometimes he would ask a question to a student. That's about as far as he got. With most of my classes, that's how it's been. At maximum, maybe a professor would ask a question.
Camilla:  The active part for those classes would be more the homework?
Participant:  Yeah. Does that count?
Camilla:  Yeah. It isn't an active learning in the classroom. It's good to know.
Participant:  Actually going back on the HR 103 labs, we really don't have to come to class anymore for the labs. It was just in the beginning. Now we can just skip them. It's mainly I guess homework. I guess that kind of shows how active learning is a thing you do on your own. It's not as much guided by the professors. That's why they're not needed to come to class.
Camilla:  The parts where you actually have to interact with your computer and do the thing, are more on your own at home. How do you feel about that? About doing the coding at home. Would you prefer it to be otherwise?
Participant:  I think it's fine. You can always come in for office hours, and get help from the TAs, or the professors. Just for me, I prefer to just do it at home, just crank it out.
Participant:  It can be frustrating though, if you are stuck with something.
Participant:  Definitely.
Participant:  You just end up having to go on Google rampages, or tracking down your other [inaudible 12;05] friends. You would probably help to have a professor guiding it. I guess that's what the labs give you the opportunity to do. You can go in and have Dr. G tell you how to do the problem. Mine was at 8:30. I never went after the first two.
Camilla:  When you said the lab you can skip, is it policy that you can skip, or you just...
Participant:  No. He says, "Labs this week are office hours. Just come in if you need them."
Camilla:  Labs become more office hours.
Participant:  Yeah. It's all office hours now. I also have an 8:30.
Participant:  Honestly I just go to hang out with my TAs because they're pretty cool people.
Camilla:  Moving on to another question. How do you feel your confidence level, to get the grade you want or to complete whatever you want in the class, is affected when you have a lecture class, versus when you have more active learning components in a class?
Participant:  When I have more lecture, I don't really know what to do. It's kind of what I was talking about before. You need the base to put the things you learn in theory into practice. I feel like if I had all lecture, it would just be, "I don't know what to do with this information. How do I actually apply it? How do I use it?" If I had too much active learning, I would feel, "What am I doing? I don't know what I'm supposed to be doing with this material, or how I'm supposed to use it. I don't know the base knowledge."
Participant:  I don't feel like I'd be that heavily impacted.
Camilla:  Your confidence?
Participant:  I thought my final grade would not be impacted.
Camilla:  Think not that much about the final grade, but your confidence level towards what you're going to get. "Yeah. I'm confident I'm going to get an A with this class." How do you feel about yourself towards the class?
Participant:  I wouldn't say I would have any change in confidence in either a lecture or active learning class.
Camilla:  Can you explain that a little?
Participant:  I guess because there's so many people, it's hard for any change in the class to really impact you. Especially in like an intro class. You just sort of adapt to the class.
Camilla:  What do you mean? Do you think the fact that there's a lot of people defines your grade just because...
Participant:  Yeah. Sort of. Just general grade distribution.
Camilla:  Because of grade distribution. Whatever it is, people come in with their grades assigned?
Participant:  I guess some people might do better in a lecture class. Some people might do an active learning class. I don't find either of them impacting me personally as much as it might some other people.
Participant:  It's more like everyone is taking the same format that you're being graded against. We've all got the same set of guidelines. Whatever processes the teacher would use for teaching.
Active learning in the sense that I've had it, which is basically a teacher giving lots of examples, and having us work out problems as they lecture. It probably makes me a little more confident just because it's nice to have a teacher write their own problems because you can get a sense for what sort of things they'd ask on a test.
It's not like a massive change, but it's good to track, rather than prop up problems out of a book, where you could get the answers out of the back, and see how it works out. Doing it yourself with the type of a problem that a teacher would write, gives a little bit of a different feeling.
Participant:  I'd have to agree with that. I have a couple lecture courses where, like my math intro course, my professor will give us quizzes for instance that we do, or non graded assignments during class. I think it's more active learning. That's helpful to see what kind of format he does his tests in. I'm more confident after doing stuff like that.
Camilla:  He gives you problems during the class?
Participant:  Yeah.
Camilla:  While the normal class is going on?
Participant:  Yes and no. He'll give us a problem. Then give us some time to work through it. He'll go through it just himself. This is kind of a test question, for instance he would do.
Participant:  The classes that I've performed the best in have been the ones where the teacher write their own problem sets for homework rather than assigning problems out of a book.
Camilla:  When they do that in class, when they put a problem in class for you, what if you're not able to solve it in the time that the professor...The professors give it some time, then they start again. What if you've not been able to solve it in that time? How do you feel about that?
Participant:  I'm still going to learn how to do it. It's a 50 minute class. I'm going to assume he's not going to give us the full time to do those little question. If I don't finish it, it's whatever. I'm still going to learn how to do it, so it's still going to help.
Camilla:  What do you guys think? Does it affect your confidence level? Do you know you're going to be able to do it later anyway?
Participant:  Yeah. Pretty much. I'm used to having a few things blow by me. "Whatever. I'll look at the slides later." I don't get too bothered by it.
Participant:  Yeah. I'd have to agree.
Camilla:  No worries. How do you feel on the grade scale about the grade you're going to get? During the semester, do you know what you're going to get? Are you confident about it during the semester? Is it more a surprise at the end of the semester?
Participant:  Based on the lecture, active learning?
Camilla:  Yeah, and in general from the classes.
Participant:  From the EGR classes. Right?
Camilla:  Yeah.
Participant:  For EGR at least, it's so heavily based on the test. Being 50 percent of our grade is based on two tests that we take. It really just depends on our grade. I guess if you feel that you've prepared well for the tests, then it's not a big deal. You know where you'll stand.
Participant:  Honestly, my intro math class, my final, that's it. I have no idea what I'm going to get really. The finals are in my other professor, so it's up in the air for me.
Camilla:  How does that make you feel about your confidence levels in succeeding?
Participant:  Probably more confident, because I've taken the other professor's tests, because he posted them online, and they're not as bad as what I've been taking. I'm feeling more confident that someone else's writing the test, even though I haven't had that professor.
Camilla:  What do you guys think?
Participant:  I pretty much don't base any just about what my grades might be. I don't base that off of anything other than the grades I'm getting on assignments and tests and such. I feel like after how many semesters of classes I've had, you can just get a feel for it. "Oh, I'm understanding everything in this class, I'll probably get a pretty good grade."
Versus, "Wow, I'm not going to lecture, and I'm getting fine, decent grades on homework, but because I'm copying everything from Jake, I probably won't get a great grade."
In a sense, there's a correlation with those higher grade classes are probably the ones that there is been more interaction with the teacher, but it's not that interaction with the teacher that is causing me to be more confident.
I think it's just my general base of knowledge that grows.
Camilla:  Do you think that your knowledge grows because you have the professor more actively engaged?
Participant:  Probably. It's more being put on the spot forces you to think about the problems, and actually participate versus in lectures, it's super easy to just turn off. Sometimes that's great for your mental health, but it's super easy. I've brought an Xbox controller to a class before and played FIFA on my computer during a lecture, because there's an attendance code.
Participant:  Damn. [laughs]
Participant:  I feel like if a class is adequately, if there's enough assessments that you should be pretty confident over what your final grade is going to be, unless the final is, it should definitely be accounted for.
Camilla:  It should be weighted more?
Participant:  It should be weighted more, but the homework should definitely be able to tell you how well you mastered the material.
Camilla:  On that same line, what you thing about feedback? Feedback is any moment where the professor is able to tell you the different means, personally, and as a class in general, or through your homework and stuff. It tells you how you're doing, feedback grade wise, but other ways, you're improving, or you're not, may not be literally a grade.
How much feedback do you think you get from professors in your STEM courses?
Participant:  None, except for a number.
Participant:  Yeah.
Participant:  Yeah, none.
Camilla:  Do you think you would like to have more feedback?
Participant:  I'm not really sure what that would look like. At some point, you're doing math and science problems and you can say, "Hey, you're doing better on these math problems." I'll be like, "Thanks, I know."
Participant:  I think you can definitely have more feedback if you would reach out for it, and go to the professors and ask for help, but for me, I usually don't go for tutoring or office hours. It is just based on my numbers and everything.
Camilla:  Do you consider that feedback, when you go to office hours?
Participant:  Yeah, because then, if you're really asking for help, they can tell you how well you've been progressing. If you really ask, they would definitely be willing to make that connection.
Camilla:  For example, for books, you were saying before that you look back to the problems, to the back of the book, and you have answers to the problems. That would be feedback, but it's not from the professor, right?
Participant:  Mm hmm.
Camilla:  What other kinds of feedback do you think you receive on that site? Not only about, "Oh, you're doing better," but about how you're learning stuff, if you're learning it or not. That would also be feedback.
Participant:  Like when you get a homework assignment graded back?
Camilla:  For example, yeah.
Participant:  That's probably pretty necessary to the learning process. It's important that you know what you're doing wrong, that you're informed, "This is how you're thinking about it wrong, you should try to approach these things with this mindset." It's important that you're right when you're doing that, or to correct any misconceptions.
Camilla:  Do you think feedback, you were telling me it's mostly grades that they give you, or if they give you an assignment back, it's also tied to your grade. Do you think that gives you information about how to improve, or how to change, or what you're doing wrong?
Participant:  Not really, unless you have a really grade grader or TA, which you won't. They're not paid enough to make suggestions. Especially with intro classes, it's just going to be other undergrads that are checking against an answer key they're given, because professors want time to check everyone's homework.
They're just going to mark out, one of my friends as a TA for differential equations, and literally if you write everything down but get the problem completely wrong, he will give you two out of three points on the question. He doesn't really look at it.
I don't blame them, because they're not teachers. I'm not really sure if I would want a bunch of undergrads giving me advice on how to solve the problems, because they might be totally wrong. I don't think you'll ever really get that kind of feedback like, "Oh, this is how you should have done it."
Unless a professor releases a full on answer key for everyone to look at, which does happen sometimes on some problem sets, but never with book problems.
Camilla:  What do you guys think? Is it like that for you, too?
Participant:  If you wanted to get in depth feedback, you'd have to go to office hours.
Camilla:  It's mostly answer keys that don't really come from the proposer, or they come, but he doesn't explain them. Do professors do that a lot, at all, going through the exam in a class?
Participant:  Sometimes.
Participant:  Yeah, sometimes.
Camilla:  Going over it?
Participant:  Smaller ones, usually.
Participant:  Yeah, not big lectures, or intro courses, or they're going to go over the test. They'll probably put an answer key online, and expect you to do that. In my math class, it's smaller, obviously. My professor will go over the test and say, "All right, this is how I did it. A lot of people didn't do it, a lot of people didn't do this, this." It's like an informal feedback, but it's still personalized in the class.
Camilla:  Then I wanted to follow up on what you were saying about TAs. What do you think about TAs in your classes? How do you think they implement, also active learning into discussions or labs in general?
Participant:  I guess TAs are just necessary, because it's almost impossible for two professors to grade everyone's labs, all the time. There's always a problem with their TA, you can always go to their professor, from what it seems. They give you a grade in the labs, and that's it.
You can always ask them for help. Usually, I feel more comfortable asking the professor for help.
Participant:  TAs are a mixed bag. Some of them are just looking out for the answer key, but in a lot of labs, with lab TAs, some of them might be like, "Oh, they really know this material," and they can actually give you in depth help.
Participant:  Yeah, it definitely depends on the TA, and also that TA's level of understanding. I wouldn't go to a grader TA for any question, but a TA that was leading a lab, or even some of the recitation TAs for Comp Sci classes, a lot of them are pretty helpful.
They're especially helpful if they're also undergrads, and they can put the problem in a way that you might have been thinking about it, because they can say things like, "This confused me, too." They'll just tell you a different way to think about a problem, that might make more sense to you than a professor who's been in the field for however many years and may not be able to relate to your struggles in an entry level class.
Camilla:  Are they mostly undergrads, then?
Participant:  For fringe classes.
Participant:  Fringe classes, definitely.
Participant:  Except labs. A lot of times, lab TAs are graduate students. Labs with things, rather than a computer lab.
Camilla:  What do you think about those labs? The labs where you actually go to the real lab.
Participant:  What do you mean?
Camilla:  What do you think about those as active learning?
Participant:  I like those as active learning. I think that has helped me quite significantly, especially in Chem 101.
Camilla:  Did it make you feel more confident about what you're doing?
Participant:  Definitely.
Participant:  It depends on the class. I remember, the Chem 101 lab ties in really well to the material. They have classes where the professor has nothing to do with the lab, and doesn't want anything to do with the lab. My electromagnetism course right now, the professor didn't even know that he had to have a lab section, and he didn't want the lab to be part of his grade, and Duke told him he had to.
He was like, "All right, you guys take care of this." Things we're doing in lab, here's interesting things you can do with electromagnetism, and they don't relate at all to the course. They're cool, and they're fun little activities, but they're not helpful.
Camilla:  They don't help you really learn the material. It depends on the classes, I hear, right?
Participant:  Yeah. I would say a lot of my experiences have been like that, the lab was only loosely tied into what the lecture was based off of. Oftentimes, they're just taught separately. You learn half of it here, and you learn half of it in the lecture.
Participant:  The UC 110 lab was probably one of the best examples of that. It was probably one of the most fun labs I've done. It's the one where you have a robot, and a complete the task, but in the class, you're learning about Ohm's Law, or things that don't relate at all to robots. It was cool.
Camilla:  On that side, do you think that helps you engineering more, as a carrier, or at all? Just wondering.
Participant:  Sometimes yes, sometimes no. That was pretty fun, but then I would also have labs, which were like, "Why are we doing this?"
Camilla:  How does that make you feel, going to the lab where you don't really do anything to get to the class?
Participant:  We have fun. It may not help you so much with how you feel about engineering as a whole, but it might help you decide what you want to do in the future. When you're doing things that aren't really in the class, and you're like, "This isn't really part of the class, but it kind of is, and it sucks. I'm definitely not going down this career path." That's about as much help as you get from it, I think.
Camilla:  Moving on, how do you think interactions with your peers change between lectures and active learning activities, and how do you think that affects your confidence levels?
Participant:  I guess you're a little more, what is it, sensitive to your peer's attitude in an active learning class, because active learning requires a lot more people to be engaged or invested in the class. I definitely had active learning type classes that, I guess I didn't participate as much, because I was busy with not engaging, but with being with friends and stuff.
Camilla:  Your friends would distract you? Is that what you mean?
Participant:  I guess because they were there, I'm more incentivized to not be as engaged.
Participant:  I'd probably agree with that. Sometimes during chem lab, I'll screw around and not really do the work and just make balloons out of the [laughs] gloves and not be on task. I think there is that incentive to not participate, but at the same token, in lectures, I'm not.
Participant:  In lectures, that thing's also there.
Camilla:  Is that usually with friends or just anyone because you just have more space to interact with them? Or is it because they're your friends that you know outside of class?
Participant:  You don't interact with people that aren't your friends if it's a lecture class.
Camilla:  You don't interact with people who are not your friends?
Participant:  No.
Participant:  I agree.
Camilla:  What about if it's an active learning class or a lab, where you have more space?
Participant:  You'd probably have to in some capacity. Unless it's just like, "Work on this problem," and you just work on it. Which I've never had an active learning class that actually involved participation with other classmates. I don't really know.
Camilla:  Do you have anything to say about that, peer interactions in the class?
Participant:  I think in some classes. If you're like, "Hey, I don't understand something. Can you help me with that?" But usually, if in a large lecture, where you can sit wherever you want, usually people sit with their friends. They can help you better and you feel more comfortable asking them for help.
But in an actual lab, sometimes, I don't know, for my HR 103 lab, I'm required to a [inaudible 33:50] lab with other people or something. Then I have to basically interact with them. At other times, I feel comfortable asking other people for help. Other times, I just ask the TAs for help.
Camilla:  Tell me more about that relation, about who you're comfortable and who you're not comfortable asking questions to.
Participant:  I guess it really depends on the people, on whether they seem welcoming or they don't really, and they're just in their own zone. I think that's basically it.
Camilla:  Usually, those interactions, like asking for another student, helps you feel more confident?
Participant:  Yeah, usually they do.
Camilla:  Does anyone have anything to say related to that? Another question we have about your engineering classes. As you've been telling us, a lot of them actually involve a lot of problems and involve solving a lot of things, compared to having to memorize a lot of things. It's more you have to be able to solve it. Rate that.
Tell me more about how much do you get each of those. Or how much do you get memorizing and how much do you get really it's about solving the problem?
Participant:  I feel like it's a mix of both. The ability of solving the problem has its own obvious value. You have the ability to analyze this correctly. But I also feel like memorization's also important, because you also need a familiarity with the material. Even if you forget it, at least there's a foundation that still exists. Definitely both are pretty important.
Participant:  With most intro classes, I feel like you have to memorize how to solve the type of problem. It's a mixture of both, because you have to know how to set it up, but then once you get it set up, then you work through it in the same way that you've been working through other problems.
Camilla:  But they actually make you do a lot of those, so you actually have to solve it?
Participant:  I'd say probably 80 percent of my classes have given you formula sheet for tests, which kind of takes the memorization part out of it, a little bit, unless there's just so much on that sheet that it's not really that helpful.
Participant:  I feel like classes are, in part, trying to emulate real world situations. In real life, engineers, if they need to know some equation, they can Google it. I think that's the formula sheets. But being able to solve problems, that's more important.
That's something you can't really Google all the time. It involves some memorization of concepts, just to be able to piece them all together and get the answer.
Camilla:  Do you have some questions, Jennifer?
Jennifer:  How do you guys feel about hands on projects outside of class? I know last year that one of my engineering friends did go on to a trip to I think Rwanda, and they built a bridge over there. Would you guys like to see, I guess, have more of those kinds of experiences, of that kind of active learning, rather than in the classroom?
Participant:  Like of that magnitude?
Jennifer:  Yeah. Or maybe not even of that magnitude. Just, I guess, more just hands on stuff.
Camilla:  Being engineers.
Participant:  I think that's really up to you. There's so much different engineering clubs and organizations you could always join. That's kind of your choice. But as for the actual classroom, not everyone's so comfortable doing that stuff. Not everyone necessarily wants to really step outside the classroom and do those kinds of activities.
It's more a kind of voluntary choice, I think.
Participant:  There are a lot of Duke clubs, but a lot of times, it's not exactly...I'm a biomedical engineer. There's not a lot of clubs that directly those sorts of problems. They're all mechanical, electrical kind of projects. I also recognize it's difficult trying to make a BME project.
Participant:  It's a bit of an ethical concern. [laughs] Like medical practices.
Participant:  I think an experience like going to Rwanda and building a bridge, it's definitely valuable. I don't know if something of that scale would really be practical to include as part of a class. I think that type of experience would be really valuable because there would be a concrete benefit. You're helping the community.
Something that you actually had to do for class might be something like building a bridge out of these, which would obviously be less rewarding, because it's not helping the community.
I do think that those types of experiences are really important and rewarding, but pretty important for figuring out what you might want to do later in your life, too, but I don't really see how they would be able to be tied into a class, especially an intro level class.
Participant:  It's kind of impractical to even attempt that, I guess.
Jennifer:  But do you think they    and include stuff like what you were saying about building a bridge with little sticks or whatever, like lower scale    but do you think that they introduce that into your classes enough or at all?
Participant:  No.
Participant:  No. That's like high school stuff that we did, building little truss bridges. I don't know. It wasn't very beneficial to me, at least.
Jennifer:  Do you do a lot of applied engineering projects?
Participant:  We've designed projects for later undergrad career. In intro classes, you frankly don't really have enough of a knowledge base to be doing any design level things. If you're just learning some laws of chemistry or whatever.
Participant:  Speaking of beyond intro level classes, I feel like there's been a lot of attempts to apply engineering, but they haven't been very good.
Jennifer:  Do you have anything else you would like to add about your experience as an undergrad doing STEM and intro STEM courses? How you feel about those, how confident you feel that you're going to be able to be an engineer and to complete your career here at Duke? Or anything related to that? Anything. This is them moment where you can say anything you want.
Camilla:  Wait. I do have another question. [laughs] Sorry. Just thought of this. Have you guys ever, in a point in time in your Duke career, thought about dropping out of Pratt because of an intro level course or just because of a course in Pratt?
Participant:  I have. Just because I don't know what I want to do, exactly, and if I want to stay in engineering. But for now, I'm good with the track I'm on. It's just I'm not exactly that comfortable. This is the path I'm going on. Stay with this.
But I guess for now, I like it, so I'm going to stick with it. It's not related to the class experience, really, because I do like my engineering class.
Camilla:  Do you think having more hands on experiences would help you?
Participant:  They probably would. But again, they're at my disposal in so many of these clubs. I think it's different. Depending on the class, you can have hands on experiences that are good. Or some just, really, you can't have hands on experiences.
Participant:  Kind of in too deep now, but I feel like Pratt does a good job of gradually introducing you into Pratt. When you're a freshman, pretty much, you take EGR 103, and that's about it for engineering classes your first semester. That class, for me, it was my first experience with coding. It was really pretty interesting, and I enjoyed the problem solving.
They start out really easy, and then as you get farther into the semester, you're doing more complicated things. That was more just like a fun intro coding class, and then you get a little bit more under each of your departments, and you just gradually get more. Then you get super overwhelmed your sophomore year, but it's OK because you're already in it.
I never really considered dropping it so much as just when I was coming to Duke and I was deciding between what I might want to do. But once I was here, I never had any doubts, and not because of class, either, for sure.
Participant:  One of my friends who is a little better at coding told me that EGR 103 had weed out class qualities. I'm not quite sure how true that is. I didn't find it particularly challenging.
Participant:  [inaudible 43:50] , who was just the nicest lady ever, for teaching EGR 103.
Participant:  I don't know. I don't think the intro classes were difficult enough to deter me from pursuing engineering.
Participant:  I think along that line, I loved my EGR 103 class. It's probably my favorite class I'm taking. It's incredibly interesting. Again, it's my first experience with coding or anything like that. For me, the intro courses are actually harder than that, like my intro chem, intro math. I think mainly because I don't have any experience.
The chemistry I took in high school was below regular level chemistry. The math I took was also not really up to the national par. It makes the intro courses a lot harder. I think that's kind of discouraging. But besides that, my engineering class is incredibly interesting. All the classes I want to take are in engineering, so in terms of dropping out, not really.
Camilla:  Can you tell us a little bit more about how discouraging...I know intro classes sometimes, they're the hardest to level, because everyone's at a different level when they get here. Professors managing that is a little hard to know. People can come from all over the world, even.
Participant:  Part of it's I'm in Chem 101, it's like the basic chemistry class here. Because the class is curved, of course, I'm competing against my classmates on tests and stuff.
I'm competing against kids who took AP in high school, which I never did, or took IB and took that for a few years. That's discouraging. It's not necessarily a level playing field, in that sense, but at the same time, it just pushes me to work harder. I guess that's a good thing.
Camilla:  Do you feel that if you interact with those peers, does that affect that relationship at all?
Participant:  I think it helps, interacting with them, because they know their stuff better than I do. In the active learning, discussion stuff, I can talk to people that have already taken a class like what these concepts taught. I don't get second help.
Camilla:  You feel your peers help you?
Participant:  Sure.
Camilla:  About the weed out class that you just mentioned, do you guys believe in weed out classes? Do you know what they are? They're like classes that are so hard that they just make people drop out. Do you believe that exists here at Duke?
Participant:  Most definitely. I think they do. [laughs]
Participant:  I don't know. If it's an introductory class, I just think you either realize you're interested in it or you're not. I don't think they're trying to purposely get people away from the subject and be cruel. I think it's just it's either you like the material or you don't, and you realize that.
Participant:  I would say the weed out classes aren't necessarily the 100 level, intro level classes, but sometimes the ones that come right after that. The intro level classes, those are the hardest classes I think that you'll encounter at Duke. Not the intro level classes, sorry. The second level ones.
The first ones, sometimes they can be a lot, but the material's never that deep. If you work pretty hard at it, you can usually get a grasp on it. But some of the second level classes then go a lot deeper, at least through me. I'm in ECE, so you have your [inaudible 47:28] , EC 110, and then you've got all these other branches of the ECE department.
Each of those classes are really in depth in their field. Those are the hard ones, I felt. Those were the ones that I would say are weed out classes for each of those sections. It was also helpful, because if you go to one and it's really hard and you didn't enjoy it and you're like, "All right, I'm not going to to through that track of ECE."
Participant:  What if they're all hard?
[laughter]
Participant:  Then you find the one you like the best, I guess. I don't know. I guess then you'd have to pick the one that you liked the most, rather than the one that was easiest. They are all going to be hard. That's what I think. I was talking to my adviser, and he told me to take this 590 class next semester.
He was like, "Here's a little known secret. Graduate classes are way easier than undergrad classes." I was like, "All right." I asked him...
[crosstalk]
Participant:  Not a little known secret.
Participant:  [inaudible 48:30] .
Camilla:  What do you think helped you go through those classes?
Participant:  What helped me?
Camilla:  Yeah.
Participant:  Shutting myself off and studying a lot.
Camilla:  On your own?
Participant:  There are usually a few other friends in the same classes. That was usually helpful. I say usually helpful.
Camilla:  When is it not helpful?
Participant:  When we all just collectively are angry at the class and then just like, and don't get anything, just talk about how much class sucks.
Camilla:  Do you guys have anything else? Now it is the time that I had said before, to say whatever you want to say about some courses and how you feel in them. This is potentially going to affect policy, so if you want to say something that you'd like to say...
Participant:  I feel like everything would change if we got more teachers that cared about teaching, which is just a hard thing to in general at an engineering school. The best teacher I've ever had Lisa Huettel. She just genuinely cares about every student.
But more than caring about every student    which I'm sure lots of professors care    she took the steps to make sure that we all understood everything we were doing. She never used lecture slides. She always talked from prepared notes and wrote everything out, so that she wouldn't be moving at too fast of a pace for us to also be writing things.
It was just like everything she did was all about us, being sure that we could grasp the concepts. I just haven't had that experience with another teacher.
Camilla:  Can you tell me more examples about that? You said, for examples, she writes her notes so that she knows if you're going to be able to write down. What else are those steps she took you just mentioned?
Participant:  She was one of the people who wrote her own problem sets for us to learn, which was really helpful. She would use a tablet, and she would just write everything down and have it put up on the projector. Then she'd draw tons of pictures of circuits and use lots of different colors, so it's really clear, like, "This is the current. This is whatever."
She's just really accessible. The class size wasn't too big. It was around 25 to 35. This was for EC 110, which is the intro circuits class. It was just really good.
Camilla:  What does that mean to you, that she was accessible?
Participant:  You just get lots of characters out of professors. It might have to do with their lecture style. I don't know. She'd always remind us about her office hours and that we could come in and just chat, [inaudible 51:50] homework, whatever. She's also, I think, the Dean of Undergraduate ECE. She's very used to dealing with us. I don't know. Maybe it was just her demeanor.
Camilla:  Do you think you went to her office hours more than you went to other professors' office hours?
Participant:  She made the material so clear in lecture that I didn't really need to go to the office hours too much. But I did find myself going, and I asked her about later planning for my degree and what classes she thought maybe I should take and stuff. She wasn't my adviser. I just asked her, for some reason.
Participant:  I had Huettel, too. I'd agree with everything you said, except because she was so accessible, you actually had to compete with other students for her attention during office hours. Usually, there would be enough students that there's a pretty good chance that you wouldn't be able to get your answers answered.
Sometimes, yeah, she writes her problems, but occasionally, some of them will just be so weird. You won't be able to answer them during    what is it    her office hours, and so you'd go to the TA office hours, and of course, the TAs didn't know what they're doing. That was salty.
Participant:  Yeah. [laughs]
Camilla:  Anything else you want to add?
[pause]
Camilla:  Are you sure? OK. Great. Do you want to add something else?
Jennifer:  Going back to the accessibility aspect, what do you guys find in a professor that you, I guess, goes back to being accessible? I want to know from the freshmen perspective that is lot. What do you guys feel that? What makes a professor feel accessible to you?
Participant:  For example, my professor now, Dr. Simmons where [inaudible 53:51] . She's incredibly accessible. She has office hours but besides that you could always email. It's really crazy. She stays after class like half an hour or even more just to answer people's questions. She'd say, "Why not?" It's really nice of her. She has lot of her time.
Participant:  I have Dr. Jim. He's merely not as accessible but I think so. If he already knows me, probably know me back, very nice. He's just pretty awesome guy. Like my Math professor, for instance, I was going to punch him. I did it because I got sick. He actually changed his office hours around that just so he can be accessible for everyone else.
He was pretty cool. I think he didn't like just canceling. I think that was very nice being able to email the professor. "Hey, can I meet you?" Most of my professors have offered to meet with you to know them. I think that's pretty nice. That's pretty cool. I'm just taking their courses too. It's very sweet.
Jennifer:  Thank you so much. Thank you for coming again. Because of that, we're learning. We'll just give your cards then. You can grab to that. You can grab more food if you want.

