Jocelyn:  First of all, welcome everyone. Thank you for coming to our STEM four focus group. My name is Jocelyn. I will be moderating the session today.
Participant:  I'm Bridgette and I'll just be taking notes.
Jocelyn:  As you noticed, we've given each of you a number. That's for keeping track of the comments you've made, but we using the number so we want to identify what you said here was you individually. Basically, what you said here stays in this room, so you don't have to worry about that. Please know that we will be audio recording this discussion. Just for an icebreaker, we would just like to get to know each other a little more.
[off mic comment]
Participant:  Hi.
Participant:  Hi. Is this the STEM...
Participant:  Yeah.
Jocelyn:  Welcome. We just started.
Participant:  [inaudible 1:13] for you.
Jocelyn:  Why don't we just go around the room and introduce yourself? What's your year, where are you from, and your major?
I'll start. My name's Jocelyn. I'm a junior. I'm a Stats and Comp Sci major. My favorite STEM course, my favorite course, at Duke is a [inaudible 1:40] College course called Pet Connection, where we get to play a lot with pets.
[laughter]
Jocelyn:  Do you want to start?
Participant:  Hi, I'm Jackie. I'm a sophomore majoring in Biology, minoring in Econ. My favorite course...it's hard to say. [inaudible 2:05] .
Participant:  I'm a freshman. I'm thinking Engineering right now. I don't really have a favorite course 'cause I've only taken four.
Participant:  I'm Nicole. I'm a senior. I'm a Music major with a minor in Education. My favorite course is this course on the Beatles. It's pretty cool.
Participant:  I'm Elizabeth, also a freshman. Again, I've only taken four classes. [laughs] But my favorite this semester is African American Studies and I plan to major in Biology.
Participant:  Hi, my name's Laurie. I'm a senior Neuroscience major and my favorite course was Neuroatatomy Lab.
Participant:  I'm Sam. I'm a senior. My favorite course was probably...I don't know. Let's say, POL 301. It's like more at the court and then more writing stuff.
Participant:  I'm Lucy. I'm also a senior, major in Biology. I guess my favorite course is called the Human Body. It's an advance Anatomy course.
Participant:  I'm Siegel. I'm a sophomore. I'm majoring in Biology and I'm learning Global Health. I guess one of my favorites classes or class that was very cool was Mental Ethics and Human Health Education.
Jocelyn:  Brigette, do you want to talk?
Participant:  I am Brigette. I am a sophomore and favorite class, I'd say, is probably the class I'm taking right now, which is Political Psychology. It's POL SCI through psychological lens.
Jocelyn:  All right. We have invited you all here because you have taken or you are taking an introductory STEM course. We'd like to know what you think about professors using different types of teaching techniques in those classes. We really believe that you are the ones who can tell us about this and we want to learn from you.
Meaning, these classes, we're looking at both lectures and active learning. We'd like to know and determine the balance of lectures and active learning is best introductory STEM course. Let me just show you some pictures of active learning and lectures so that you can get to know more about active learning and lecture.
Can everybody see it?
Participant:  Sorry, the monitor is broken.
Jocelyn:  Yeah, in the left here, you can see people using clippers, that's a type of active learning. On the other side, we have a professor lecturing. Again, on the left, we have students working in groups on projects and we have another professor lecturing. Here, we have students working in small groups and having discussion.
On the other side, we have professor lecturing to a large group of students. These are some common types of active learning. There are also other active learnings. Basically, active learning is just a way of teaching where students get directed involved in the class.
I just want to clarify some ground rules. We, here, want you to do the talking so we would like everyone to participate. There are no right or wrong answers, so feel free to express your ideas and opinions.
What is said, again, in this room stays in this room so you don't have to worry. About cell phones, we would appreciate you if you keep it away or turn it off, but if you have emergency and you have to handle it, just go.
We've handed out a handout to you guys so please look at it right now. This is related to our first question.
Now please consider the following situation. Suppose it is the first day of your STEM 101 course. You're sitting in a classroom with other students. Your professor walks in and says that a course can be taught using any mix of lectures and active learning.
Which mix of lectures and active learning would you personally feel the best, or would you prefer? It can be all lecture to all active learning, just any combination.
Participant:  I honestly feel like it depends on what the course is. Like my answer would be different if it was a biology course, versus organic chemistry, versus physics.
Jocelyn:  Can you...?
Participant:  Personally, I feel with courses like Orgo and Physics, for me, I would like mostly lecture, like maybe 75 25, just because I took flipped Physics and it was not taught very well. But on the other hand, I did flip Bio 202 and I thought it was done pretty well.
I think it just, for me at least, it depends on what the course is.
Jocelyn:  Can you give more specific...like why do you think it doesn't work well?
Participant:  It might depend on each individual, but for me the concepts in Orgo and Physics were harder for me to grasp by myself. I thought it worked a lot better with having a professor explain the concepts in lecture.
Whereas when I did flip Physics, it was like, "Read the textbook and figure out all of this on your own," and then go into the class and do problems. But most of us didn't get the concepts down very well, so none of us knew how to do the problems. It really just felt like a waste of time.
Participant:  I felt the same way about...I was in flipped Orgo, and I didn't feel like I got a lot of value out of actual class period, because if I just happened to, that week, not get time to read the text book and do all the readings and all the practice problems, then I didn't feel like I got a lot from going the actual lecture period.
I think it should kind of be the other way around.
Participant:  I took flipped Orgo last semester and then I dropped it because it was really difficult to take. I'm taking it right now, the normal class lecture style, and I think it's so much better mostly because the Orgo textbook is super dense.
When the professor lectures, he highlights what's most important, what he expects you to know. Whereas in a flipped classroom where I was for two weeks, they just expected you to read a chapter and you're digesting information, and not really know what you'll need in your exam.
Participant:  I think for courses, like chemistry or physics, were built on material, and built on knowledge. It's more helpful if you have more of a lecture style where the professor can give you more guidance and more instruction on how to understand the concepts.
Whereas for something like biology, you might be able to just learn something just by listening, or to be able to participate and it might seem more fun to have more active learning exercises.
Participant:  I'm in Chem 101 right now and it's very lecture based, but during class we can also ask questions if we have questions or concerns to the professor. I think that's pretty easy to follow. We also have discussion to answer questions.
The format of the lecture time for learning and the discussion to do problems, I think it's pretty good, for me at least.
Participant:  I do think for Computer Science 101, which I took, it was much more helpful to be able to do more active learning because I feel like a lot of the way we got those concepts were by actually trying it out on our own. For that I would have maybe 75 percent active learning and 25 percent lecture. At the same time I took Chem 101 and it was more of a flip class.
One of the main problems, at least for my group, was motivation to stay on top of the work and then come into the class for when we were doing the problem sets. If we didn't do the work on her own then it would be hard to be motivated to go to class.
Participant:  I took Stats 101 and Comp Science 101. For me personally, I think every single class would benefit if it was 50 percent lecture and 50 percent active learning. From my definition, I think it should be like you read the textbook at home, the professor maybe covers it on Monday and you actually apply it on Wednesday.
The professor should be briefly covering it and asking if there's any questions. It shouldn't be like you're expected to learn all the concepts by just reading your text book and then the tests about it in class. That's pretty much a quiz scenario. The professor is literally not contributing anything unless they're answering the questions. That's what I think.
Participant:  I'm taking a math course this semester. Most of the classes lecture even though it's a very small class. Nobody really asks questions. We do have a lab component. I think that really helps bring everything together because were actually doing problems. The problems are, again, bringing everything together. It's a lot of time put into it. Some of the labs are really complicated but as long as we ask the TAs, it's fine.
Jocelyn:  In general, you all think that you, to summary, you think the mix would depend on the course itself. Are you a hundred comfortable if it's a physics or chemistry course and it's a hundred lecture? Are you OK with that?
Participant:  I don't think you can, well, at least for chemistry I don't think you could really define it that way anyways because of the lab component. I think that's intrinsically active learning. In that sense, just for the lab for Bio 201 where the lab is necessary to understand most of the application of the principle that you learn. I don't even think that could really be a question you can entertain for those classes.
Jocelyn:  Do you think lab contributes to your understanding of the concepts in those courses?
Participant:  I think it depends on the course. I feel like some of the Orgo labs, I guess they're probably useful but they're not necessarily directly relevant to such learning in class. If you're interested in chemistry research [inaudible 14:38] , you do read Bio 201, everything that we did in lab was directly applied on he exam. There were sometimes things on exams that were from there.
Jocelyn:  Besides lab, I mean, in the lecture session? Would it be optimal for you to have all lecture for a dose [inaudible 15:04] ?
Participant:  Not at all. [laughs] Especially if, in the way the tests in those classes were situated where problem based, I would want the chance to be able to sit down with a group, or able to sit down with the teacher, and go through problems, and work stuff out.
Jocelyn:  We've covered this a bit in our first question, but in terms of active learning which types, if any, I have been used in your introductory stem courses? Do you want to tell us more about your specific experiences with that certain type of active learning techniques?
Participant:  In Ecom 201, we had Top Hat. It was one of those interactive, it was like a clicker. I think it didn't really count towards grades, maybe two percent if you got all of them right. It was really not effective because you could do it from your dorm as long as you knew when the professor started it. We would send one person in a group of 10 to go and text us when everybody gets started.
My professor asked once, "What is the right day to go to Shooter's?" It's not really relevant at all to what we're learning, so I didn't think that was very helpful. I can see it being helpful in another class?
Jocelyn:  Like what class?
Participant:  In Bio we have a lot of small quizzes and we have a group quiz. They don't use a quicker but I could see them using it. We use a scratch card which is actually like the same thing. I think those have helped me quite a lot. I had the chance to discuss in a group what was on the quiz because we had a quiz before that. They would explain it to me the problems I struggled with. It was essentially a review of the previous quizzes.
Jocelyn:  Anybody want to share their experience with a certain type of active learning?
Participant:  I took Stats 101 and I thought it was, it was structured so that the professor would lecture and in parts of his lecture he would stop and be like, "This is a cougar question." We all take out our clickers and answer a question, whether it would be a concept or a problem. I thought that was pretty helpful.
I find that active learning styles like that, those types of lectures, it keeps you awake, too. For me lectures, I will fall asleep. I get really bored hearing someone talk for a while. I thought it was really helpful.
Participant:  I took Physics 141. We had a flipped classroom kind of learning approach. Where we did problems and read the text book by ourselves. We went to class and the professor would lecture for about 10 to 15 minutes and go over a few of the core concepts. Then we had groups of four or so, where we sat and had a paper problem set to work on for a whole chuck of time.
It was very difficult if you didn't understand the concepts well enough. I think it was difficult if you didn't do the reading or didn't do practice problems, but it was also helpful in the sense that you could talk to you teammates and talk over the problems. The professors would sometimes walk around and you could ask them to come over and explain concepts in the moment.
Participant:  Just to add on to that, we were also organizing groups in my stats class. From my particular group, we were all the same level. We didn't really have much experience with stats, but I know other groups have one really smart person at stats, and it would be lower tiers as you progress.
I thought that would be really helpful, because when you're answering questions by yourself, and you have no idea, you feel really insecure, and you're afraid to ask questions. If you ask your group mates, I think that's a lot more comfortable than asking a question in class in front of everyone, and looking stupid.
Participant:  I was going to say, I feel like it's helpful when there's one person, or they're grouped or structured so there's one person who's skill level is slightly above everyone else's, because I've been in a group where we're all the same, and then we're just unsure.
If one of us had a question, the other people would come and answer it, but there were other groups where there was clearly one person who knew a little bit more about what we were doing, then they would be able to help carry the team more, and just have a certain sense of certain data, if you have a question that you want to ask your group mates.
Participant:  The way they structure the physics groups is actually, everybody took a test at the beginning of the semester, and then I think they made groups so that each group would have a different range of skill levels. I guess that would balance it out more.
Participant:  I've been in a couple classes that have the group dynamic therapy, but the difference between them was. I was in one time, in that one, there were a lot of lectures. It was heavy lecture focused Monday, Wednesday, and then Friday would be a lot of interactive group work.
It was more presentation style, and that was optional. Then, on the one, it was every single day, similar to the class that she had. It was like, every single class would be a very heavy group focus, and I thought that the first model worked a lot better, because it made sure that everybody got a solid, similar understanding of the context.
That we're able to work together rather than some people in the group not contributing anything, and others doing everything.
Jocelyn:  For question three, we will let, three and four we like to know about how these different teaching techniques affect your confidence levels towards a course. Please think about how confident you would feel about being able to get the grades you want in an intro STEM course.
How would you rate confidence in your belief to get the grade you want to be effective, when the professor gives a lecture? How it affects your confidence.
Participant:  Go ahead. [laughs]
Participant:  I think a lecture would help your confidence more than rather being in a group and not knowing what's happening.
Participant:  I actually think a little bit opposite. If you had a question in a lecture, but because it's a big group setting, a huge group setting, then it'd be harder to ask a question in order to clarify your understanding of the concept. You might not get as clear an understanding, or at least I wouldn't get as clear an understanding and feel as confident going into a testing situation.
As opposed to, if we were working in small groups, and the professor came around, I do think it's easier to ask that. I also think having discussions, not just labs are really helpful, especially if they're run by TAs who were students before, because even though they might not have the deepest understanding of the knowledge, they have taken the course before and they have supposedly done well in it.
I feel like it's easier, sometimes, to ask a student, or it's easier to come up to a student, rather than a professor, especially when you're younger, like a freshman.
Participant:  I think it works well if you do a problem, and then there's a reprieve afterwards. We were initially running out of time in Physics 141, and so sometimes your group would do the problem wrong, and then the professor would try to explain it or run out of time. Then it's not very helpful, because you just did the problem wrong.
Participant:  For me, during lecture, I don't always have questions because I'm just trying to process all the information so that when I go back, and I start reviewing the material, I start studying, then my questions come up and the lecture is good because I get all the information, and then I can always email the professor, or come to office hours and set up a time to meet to answer all my questions.
I don't mind the lecture, especially since by doing the emailing with the professor, and coming to office hours, I develop a better learning relationship with the professor that is valuable, and I can also hone my grade on the course.
Participant:  Also, the value of the lecture depends a lot on the lecturer, and whether or not he's good. I've been in classes where the moment you sit down, your hand's on the page and if he says finer concepts, then he's like, "Does anybody have questions?" And there's three seconds left.
That's on one end of the spectrum, but there have also been lectures where after every major concept, or after especially tough concepts, especially the professors, it's more difficult for students to get a grasp of. He'll stop like, "Are there questions?"
This is in a class of like 300 people. A lot of professors are reluctant to open it up for questions, but I feel like it's not that way with you.
Participant:  I think confidence after a lecture depends on what lecture. I think there are some lectures where I managed to convince myself I understand the material really well, and I woke up feeling quite confident, but when I start preparing for the exam, I start freaking out.
Whereas there are some lectures that are so dense, I can walk out not knowing half of what just happened. I have everything written down, not processed, so I feel really, really not confident. I think it depends.
Jocelyn:  To add on to that, you also need to know what aspect of the lecture, or an element of the lecture would affect your confidence, either boost your confidence, or decrease your confidence level most. What matters to you most during a lecture? Is it the style of the lecturer, or the size of group, or the time of the lecture. Would that matter at all?
Participant:  I think it would matter for me, the size of the group. If it's a 300 person class, I would be so intimidated to ask a question. As for the lecturer him or herself, I would say the pace he or she goes at, how many concepts he goes through, and totally stops and asks for a question.
Participant:  Can you repeat your question on more time?
Jocelyn:  What aspect of a lecture would affect your confidence level in a course most?
Participant:  For me, if the professor puts a problem on the board, and then starts working through it. If I'm working through it at the same time, but get to the right conclusion before they do, or if I get there, and the method I took was correct, I guess that would.
Jocelyn:  You'd be more confident?
Participant:  Yeah.
[laughter]
Jocelyn:  What else?
Participant:  I don't know how often that happens.
Jocelyn:  That one never happens, right?
Participant:  In science classes, how often do they put a question on the board and say, "We're going to work through it." I feel like I've taken a bunch of math courses where they've done that, but science not so much.
Participant:  Especially in Comp Sci, there's so many ways to get to an answer, so it's really hard for the professor to explain all of the different ways you could do that.
Participant:  I think the relationship with your lecturer is really important, because my stats class, he would go through an example, and then there are so many parts of an example I just don't understand. Then you would pause, try to look at the questions I guess. I don't even know why, but if it's full, I walk out of the class feeling pretty tired.
I would say for me, the way that a person speaks as well. It sounds dumb, but I had a hard time understanding my first professor, because she had quite an accent. Obviously, it was really hard. She also talked really fast, so you'd be looking, trying to write your notes and she's on the next white board.
I went back and recorded lectures and everything, but sometimes she would speak really softly, too, so I wouldn't be able to hear what she was saying, whereas my second order professor spoke really clearly, and that an adequate volume, and didn't speak super fast. It was just easier.
Participant:  To add on to that, the lectures are recorded, that definitely makes me feel better.
Participant:  That's a great thing.
Jocelyn:  Why is that?
Participant:  Because if I miss one thing in class, I can just pull it up.
Jocelyn:  All right. How would your confidence in your abilities to get the grade you want be affected when the professor uses active learning techniques?
Participant:  Can you repeat the question again? Sorry.
Jocelyn:  Yeah. How would your confidence in your abilities to get the grades you want to be affected if the professor uses active learning techniques?
Participant:  Hopefully positively. I'm a huge fan of active learning, so to answer your previous question, if I would be more confident about a class if there was more active learning in a lecture, I'd feel really happy about that, because I thrive off that, but that's just me, personally.
Participant:  In terms of the group problems, since you're able to be competent in discussing the problem, and you're not just totally lost with everyone talking, or beyond that, if you're reviewing the group, then I think that would contribute a lot to your confidence. Especially in these classes, a lot of it is relevant to your peers, not just the class itself.
Participant:  I think generally positive, because even if you get a question and you get it wrong, then you realize, "OK, this is what I need to focus more on," or, "This is a concept that I should spend more time on." If you get it right, it's an obvious confidence boost, because you know what you're doing.
Participant:  The ability to get a good grade depends on whether active learning, for me, if active learning is graded. If he has a bunch of small quizzes, it forces me to study and I would probably do better in my final, or my larger exams as a result. I think that would affect me.
Participant:  For me, I haven't taken a class here yet that is flipped classroom style, but going into it, I'd have a lot of doubt in my mind, because I wouldn't know if what I'm actually practicing in class is going to be on the test.
I wouldn't know what to expect from the test, because I don't know if they would all be practice problems, or there'd be some material that I've been missing because I have to watch some videos or something. I think it'd be a lot harder, I'd have less confidence.
Participant:  I feel like I, in general, just don't recommend flip classes. If you're looking at Orgo or something, don't take it.
Participant:  I think if they give you a chance in a lecture class to do a problem by yourself or something, or do it in a small group, so it's not totally flip class, but you do get a chance to work through stuff. That definitely helps. Yeah, I don't recommend flipped classes, either.
Jocelyn:  In general, you don't recommend them?
Participant:  Yeah.
Jocelyn:  What?
Participant:  Especially when you're a freshman, or at least when I was a freshman. My first big science class was a flipped class. It was like, "Well, this is not really what I thought college, or taking a college level science class would be like." I'm behind now, so I'm already really discouraged, and I don't really have the confidence to go talk to the professor on my own and catch up, and it's at 10:05.
[laughter]
Participant:  My experience is really similar. Also, I feel like there are very foundational, crucial classes. When I took Orgo 1, I was like, "Oh, I don't need this, whatever" but then I realized, "I'm doing Orgo 2 and Bio Chem, wait, I do need this." I struggled with that a lot. My grades suffered because I had a really poor foundation from Orgo 1, because it was all self taught.
A class like Orgo 1 is not like chemistry, and it requires you to build new modes of learning and think about things in different ways. I think you need a professor's assistance with that.
Participant:  I think you also have to build up a way of learning when you get to college. Coming in as a freshman, it's very different from high school, your work expectations. In flip class format, at the very beginning is, again, very hard to know how to motivate yourself. Sometimes, grades aren't always a good motivating factor.
Participant:  I would likely only recommend flipped classrooms where there is a lecture, you watch the lecture, it's recorded before class. I thought that was actually really helpful, because if you didn't understand something, you could go back and watch it as many times as you needed.
I was in Stat 101 and Bio 202, and I thought those were all pure, recorded lectures, you can watch them, and then do problems in class. I thought that worked pretty well, but if there is no lecture at all, or a very small, 5 to 10 minute lecture like with physics, I would say don't do it.
Participant:  I guess flipped classroom is not the only type of active learning, so it's not typical. I mean, in the classes that are not flipped, I definitely feel more of a connection with the professor. I either like or dislike him, it's not like I only know him from videos. I think that has helped me become either more motivated, or sometimes less motivated than a straight class. I think that affects confidence.
Jocelyn:  What kind of active learning do you think would boost your confidence level in a course?
Participant:  At least for Comp Sci 101, having the discussion after the two days of lecture were really helpful. Again, you got to talk to somebody who has gone through the course before, and it's a lot of, you can work at your own pace. I think there is also immediate feedback of, "Did you get the problem set right," and then being able to check it over with either your peers or the TA.
Participant:  I think maybe an approach where the class meets two days a week, where in the first day the professor does more of a lecture style, teaches the concepts, and then in the second day, you learn to apply the concepts and do problems. I think that would be more helpful, a better way of active learning that would help me.
Participant:  I think bio labs right now are definitely super helpful for my confidence, because I will basically take one of our own little experiments, and following a straight template, we all have a different result. Being able to analyze and visualize what we got definitely wasn't commonplace.
Jocelyn:  Just an add on question, how would your confidence level be affected by your relationship you have with your TA? Does that matter, or does that help you?
Participant:  It definitely helps, because I was good friends with my Comp Sci TA. If I then had a question, like doing the homework that was not part of the discussion, I would feel pretty confident just asking him. For my next Comp Sci class, it wasn't the same. It was harder to reach out to them.
Participant:  I think TAs are very, very helpful. I'm taking EGR 103 right now, and even when the labs are optional, I still go. I still talk to the TAs, get help with my labs, ask questions, and it's very helpful because I feel like the professors were very busy. They don't always have time, and for the little things the TAs are always there to help.
Participant:  TAs are also better at dumbing it down for you. I've had really good TAs and really bad ones, you can email them at anytime of the night, and they will respond back to you. They really do want you to succeed, and will even meet with you in your free time.
I think a good relationship with your TA is really great, but it's really hard to find good ones. You don't want someone who is just high in the class, you want someone who is receptive to you.
Participant:  I think it also depends on what the professor once the TA to do in discussion settings. Having gone to one TA, I don't know about this. I've never gone to any TA sessions. Now I'm a TA, and I see one person a week, because our only goal is to go through homework problem was that he posts very elaborate solutions to. I didn't go, and I don't expect my students to come, so I think it depends.
Participant:  Successful TAs are really nice. It might be more of a painful experience, but I did a summer at the Marine Lab and so we all had to go at the same time. We would go to our TAs, and they would be within a couple of steps away if you wanted to ask them a question after class was over.
That helped a lot. I definitely agree with them being able to dumb down things for you, because sometimes if you ask a professor, crucially my physics professor, sometimes he would go off tangent or take this very broad view. Then the TAs would both be like, "This is what's important. This is what you need to know to answer the question."
Jocelyn:  Do you think a good relationship with a TA can replace active learning or the inclusion of active learning in a course?
Participant:  Active learning is what encourages the interactions with your TAs. It's cyclic. If you just have a good relationship with your TA, it's not going to help you that much unless you have homework questions or projects that you need to work towards.
Participant:  Any other thoughts?
Participant:  I agree with that. I think your relationship with your TA doesn't really have anything to do with active learning. Say you have, in my Stat class, questions throughout the lecture. Yes, you feel more comfortable asking them, but it doesn't really contribute that much.
A good relationship from your TA is largely, mostly based on the student's behalf. If you go see your TA, you're most likely going to develop a good relationship with the person. If you never see your TA, you're not.
Jocelyn:  For question five and six, we would like to know how getting feedbacks from others about your work in a class is affected by teaching styles. When you're going to serve, do you think about it? When your professor was giving a lecture, how much feedback did you feel like you were getting about how you were doing in the class?
Participant:  Grade wise, is that what you're asking?
Jocelyn:  Other feedbacks or grades. You can help about grades, but other things are also included.
Participant:  Could you repeat the question?
Participant:  Yeah, I'm confused.
Jocelyn:  When your professor was giving a lecture, how much feedback did you feel like you were getting about how you were doing in the class?
Participant:  During a lecture?
Jocelyn:  Yes.
Participant:  Something that I found with math especially, I think I know something. I studied the night before, and when he starts doing problems on the board, it's a much different story. It does give a lot of feedback as to where you are, I think.
Participant:  It's hard for me to gauge, because sometimes the professor will explain something, then go through a practice problem. Then you'll go through the homework, and it'll be like, "I don't know how to do it." I don't know, if you're doing a really easy problem in a lecture, and then you go back to the problems, and they are a lot more difficult.
You might think you understand something, but then you don't really understand it, once you try to apply it.
Participant:  If the professors do apply feedback on grades and stuff during class, they hit where the majority of the students are, or how most people in the class are doing, or what most people are struggling with. Especially in each year, when there's a really huge class, I found that apparently some people are struggling about loops or something.
I haven't had these problems, but I'm surprised to hear about these problems because I want to consider them something I'm struggling with. I guess they're naturally going to do that, because most people were struggling with it, but it's hard to gauge on an individual level.
Participant:  It's helpful for the professor, when they're teaching a concept, and then relating it, they'll briefly say how you can, while you're studying, a specific schematic, or they'll try to draw out how different pathways or something were connected.
They'll give you an example of something, and exercise you can do in your own time, and they say if you're having trouble doing this on your own, then you need to practice more and study more. But if you can do this without looking at Silicon Valley, I think that's helpful because it gives you checkpoints on the level of mastery they expect you to have. That can sometimes be ambiguous.
Participant:  For one of my classes, we had to take an online quiz every week. Once the responses came by, you can see how many people got this question correct, and you can see it's correct. You can see for one set of questions, whatever one had more trouble with.
Sometimes, a professor would actually talk about it in a lecture, and explain more on the concept. I think that was helpful in getting some feedback.
Jocelyn:  Is that after school?
Participant:  No, it was just quizzes on Sci.
Participant:  Just adding on, I think active learning is, from my personal view, really great for the students to be able to learn from that. It's also a really great opportunity for the teacher to learn, is the pace I'm going too fast? What are these kids getting, or not getting?
In some classes, if you were in my stats class, for instance, if we consistently got all of the questions wrong throughout a lecture, that means you have to slow down. It really does depend on the professor's receptiveness, how he takes this information for himself.
If he just goes over the concepts again, figures out what issues people were having, but he doesn't realize he's going too fast in general, that's another problem he has to take into account.
Participant:  Other introductory STEM classes, we barely ever go over the same material twice. When I'm studying it the first time, obviously most of the time I know what's happening, but then I don't really have the chance. The professor won't go over it again, and I don't really have the chance to ask myself whether I know this.
Honestly, probably, and I definitely don't know what people around me are thinking. I don't think it's very common to discuss the stream lecture. I don't honestly know, lectures are very helpful for me.
Jocelyn:  What about when a professor is using active learning technique? How much feedback do you feel like they're getting about how you're doing on the course?
Participant:  I feel like any type of active learning is almost a way for immediate feedback. Did you get the concept that was being covered in the most recent lecture, if that's what's the question's on. What I was going to say is, it's only helpful if you're actually trying and putting the effort in.
At the same time, if you were really behind, then active learning is really not going to help at that moment.
Jocelyn:  Would graded active learning versus ungraded active learning make a big difference?
Participant:  I think it does. I think ungraded active learning, because of our obligations, otherwise a lot of students will not even partake in them, or just do them at the start and not really bother with them. It's obviously a problem because we haven't perfected graded active learning, but I think active learning wouldn't be very helpful to the grade. Maybe two percent to the whole semester, but still be substantial.
Participant:  I think graded active learning is definitely better, too. It forces you to study, go to the material the night before or whatever. As opposed to not having it graded, then based on your motivation, that's not going to go over students, I don't think, unless they were overachievers.
I was thinking, if you post it as extra credit, it's still going to be the same thing. It's only going to be for those overachievers that actually do it. I think active learning should actually be more than two percent. For me, I think it should be like 10 percent, but not higher than that. Then, the students will freak out about it more, and they'll have to do it.
Participant:  I like the approach that Stat 101 used where there was a pretty simple 10 question quiz at the beginning of every new unit. That would be graded, but you would also do it again with your group, and then the closing questions were all participation. They were not graded, they were just to see if you are in class.
I think a mix of graded and not graded was enough to make you keep up with the material, because you wanted to do all the quiz, but it wasn't too much pressure.
Jocelyn:  Any other thoughts?
Participant:  I was just thinking about this while we were talking. What if, maybe at the end of every course, at the end of a semester, or even at parts of the semester, if the professors offer extra credit if you come and did this about his own class. Him not being here, because that would be awkward, but you would be like a TA.
Maybe a TA would be like, "What's working, what's not?" If he actually takes our feedback, and takes into account, that would be so helpful, but professors don't care. They really don't. Even if you were to say, "Ugh, you're going too fast." I feel like this could be more effective. They'd be like, "Oh, OK." They're not going to do it.
Participant:  That's what the evaluations are for. [laughs]
Participant:  Yeah, but nobody does them.
Participant:  Nobody does them.
Jocelyn:  It's so much harder with the evaluations being online, because you can get very divided opinions of people who love the course and people who really hated the course.
Participant:  That's a good point, too. With my professor, it's going to be one or the other. There is no middle ground, really.
Participant:  The course values are not really qualitative at all. They don't really, I feel, reflect that.
Participant:  There should be some system where they're forced to take those evaluations into account. I don't know if they even read them.
Participant:  Some people do, but I find it hard for big intro courses, that they read every persons comment. If it's a 300 person classroom.
Participant:  Also, the way that the course works, I'm working on a professor's review right now, and the way that the course evaluations are set up, all the numbers are on one page and all the comments are on the other, so they probably would not go through and read all the comments, especially if they're all there.
Participant:  Your point is, active learning can actually make professors see more, reflect on how he or see is teaching, and to adjust his or her teaching style. That will be helpful to further your confidence in performance in the course, right?
Participant:  Definitely. That was my previous point before. I think now I'm just bitching on teachers because they don't do anything. I don't know what the results of this, what the purpose of this study is but if it's how the students better learn from courses, it should be more.
It should also take into account like how professors can better teach their courses. Yes, that's still active learning but more specifically, they need to provide more student feedback and actually take that into account too.
Jocelyn:  Last question. We also like to know the interaction, which appears during that class. How do interactions appear under the class that you have experienced in and involves that course?
Participant:  In lecture?
Jocelyn:  Just in lecture and in active learning.
Participant:  In lecture it's really great. You have pretty much a quarter of the class asleep and the rest of them are like crazy with certain Facebook. There's really no in between or no direction. When people are going to come, we're talking really loudly.
The lecture is like I would like to sit far away from everyone else just take notes. Of course, they don't how I'm feeling.
Jocelyn:  I think having friends that way helps for big versus. For me, I would always. I am lucky and I always have one really smart friend in every course. If I don't get something, which is pretty often, I just be like, "Hey." He'd just be there and explain this really quick. They'll be able to help me out instead of me not understanding something and then thinking that you would go back.
We'll get it later and not be able to get to it. It helps me get to the answer to the question right there.
Participant:  I think good group studying versus to just studying in groups when we're doing final exam, practice exams, and stuff in groups is really helpful. It's good to have those go to people. Otherwise you don't get it on your own. You can't supplement your understanding with others.
Participant:  Student interaction is always really good. Although in my Comp Sci 101 class I was taking with two of my good friends. For some reason it made me really insecure because they were really good at comp sci and I was not. I just wouldn't ask them questions. I wouldn't ask them for help. That's usually not the case.
Jocelyn:  How's the peer interactions in practical learning will affect your experience.
Participant:  Depends on who your group is. If they're a good group. Maybe you have that one person who's enthusiastic about the course, and understands the material well. That will motivate the rest of the group. If everybody's kind of like, "Meh," then it's harder.
Participant:  I think something you have that one person in the group that's somewhat annoying or really really overachieving. It makes me sometimes want to avoid going to class. It's rarely that severe. I can think of one person. [laughs]
Participant:  With people who are really aggressive, or people who don't listen to you, or people who have really bad attitudes.
Jocelyn:  Anything else you want to share?
Participant:  This discussion has made me really glad I'm not taking a STEM course.
[laughter]
Participant:  Just thinking about the past.
Participant:  It is very very different to other liberal arts courses. I'm in a language class. It's completely not the same.
Participant:  Again, this is my personal opinion. I've heard some of you guys think lectures are good for some classes. I think active learning classes, I feel like it could be either as bad as a lecture, or it could be slightly better, or really good. For active learning, from what my mind is, it's going to be some part of lecture based and you answer questions about the class, or you somehow answer problems with it.
When is that ever going to be bad? If you really don't know what the answer is, then that sucks, but at least you know. At least it'll motivate you to do better. When is that ever going to be a bad thing? I don't know.
Jocelyn:  When is a bad experience?
Participant:  For me it's like if the course, there's a lot of material to learn. If the professor doesn't give you some guidance or take about it in the class, and it's really up to you to be independent and learn that material.
It feels like a waste of time when you're doing active learning, and you're not really getting much out of it. If you don't understand the problems, and you spend a huge chunk of time in class, but then you're not learning the concepts. That's for me.
Participant:  It's more like there's so much information that you don't know anything. Then asking questions is pointless, because you don't even know the bare basics.
Participant:  Yeah.
Participant:  I think it depends on how the teacher makes resources available to you otherwise. For two of my Econ lectures, I wish they were flipped. They're almost completely irrelevant, but for my Orgo class, he doesn't have any power points. He doesn't have any lecture notes. We don't go to class and take notes, then you have nothing. In that case, I would prefer to just have a good old lecture, so I could get the notes.
Jocelyn:  Any last minute thoughts, comments?
That's the end of our focus session. Again, thank you all for coming today. We have the gift card for you. Please sign the form. Just a confirmation that everyone got theirs.
Participant:  Do you need us to fill this out?
Jocelyn:  No. That's for your records.
