Bridgette:  I'm just going to put this here so it picks up everyone.
Participant:  No problem.
Bridgette:  All right, are we ready?
Participant:  Yep.
Bridgette:  First of all, welcome. Thank you so much for coming. We're really excited to see everyone. We are the "STEM for All Vast Connections" group and this is a focus group for that.
First of all, I try to go through some introductions. My name is Bridgette and I'm going to be moderating the discussion.
Jocelyn:  My name's Jocelyn. I'm the note taker for this session.
Bridgette:  You'll see that we gave each of you a number card, and that's just so we can keep track of your comments without using your name later on. Your name will in no way be linked to your specific comments or anything like that.
Please note that we are audio recording. It's right there.
Just a couple of quick ground rules on the discussion. We want you guys to be the one's doing the talking. Everyone participates as much as you can. It's very informal discussion so none of this is directed at me.
It'll mostly be just a discussion between you guys with me asking a few questions. There are no right or wrong answers. Obviously, everyone's experiences and opinions are important and different. Speak out if you agree or disagree with something someone is saying.
We do want to hear wide range opinions and what is said in this room, stays in this room. You can feel any comfortable sharing your thoughts, knowing that no one will know that it was you that said them. Just like with cell phones, I'm going to have mine out just to track the time. Unless you have an emergency, if you just keep it off for a while, that would be awesome.
Just a quick icebreaker activity. We just want everyone be comfortable with each other and get a feel of everyone's name is. If you could just tell us your name and maybe what your favorite class you've taken and you see it for a spin.
I'll start. I'm Bridgette like I said. My favorite class that I've taken is probably Political Psychology right now. I think that's interesting. It's been it so far. I'm going to start going around to you.
Participant:  I'm Jeffrey. I'm a Chemistry major and I guess my favorite class so far has been Orgo 2. I guess you do it too.
Participant:  With Baldwin?
Participant:  Yes.
Participant:  I'm Acer. I'm a ComSci and Philosophy major and my favorite class probably been Barack Obama and African American Literature.
Participant:  Hello, everyone. I'm Anthony. I'm a Biology major and my favorite class so far has been I guess Molecular Biology. I like that class.
Participant:  220?
Participant:  Yeah.
Participant:  Hi everyone. My name is Alex. I'm a Bio major and my favorite class has been STAT 111 with Dr. Banks.
Participant:  I'm Adan. I'm a Stat Global Healthcare major. My favorite class so far has been "Better Living with Data Science," which is a focus class.
Participant:  Hi everyone, I'm Gary. I'm a freshman, so I'm technically undeclared, but I'm planning on doing neuroscience. My favorite class has probably been my Writing 101 class, which is "Environmental Justice and Global Change."
Bridgette:  Introduce yourself.
Jocelyn:  Oh yeah. I'm Jocelyn, I'm a Stats and Comp Sci major, and my favorite class so far is, I guess, another Writing 101 class, "Pet Connection," where we service learning in the APS.
Bridgette:  All set. We've invited you here because you've taken or are currently taking an introductory STEM course, and we'd like to know what you think about professors using different types of teaching techniques in those STEM classes. You're the ones who tell us about this, and we want to learn from you.
Within these classes, we're looking specifically at both lectures and active learning. We'd like to determine what balance of lectures and active learning are best used in introductory STEM courses. I have a few pictures down there. The projector is broken, so that's the monitor I mean. Can everyone see OK?
We have a picture of a lecture, pretty typical with your teacher up front and everyone is watching. Then, with active learning, you see more of the students communicating with each other, walking around, getting up. Do we have more pictures?
Jocelyn:  Yes.
Bridgette:  Once again, a little bit different lecture setting, but the teacher is giving the information to the students. In this one, we have even more active learning. You're seeing the students are in the groups, and they're not necessarily facilitating their own learning, but communicating with each other.
Alright, that leads us to this paper we handed out to everyone, which is what kind of breakdown lectures and active learning, do you feel is best for you to learn. I don't know if you guys need a little time to think, or you just want to go around and share. Either way, whatever works.
Participant:  Can I mark this?
Jocelyn:  Yeah.
Participant:  I think it depends on the class. I'm in Chem 101 right now, and I've never taken a chemistry class before. For that one, I feel that I think that a 100/0 kind of thing, especially with the lecture class, is almost necessary, because there's just a massive amount of information you have to get through.
I like active learning, and it's nice to sit down and talk with people. There's a discussion session outside of the chemistry lecture, but as far as the actual lecture goes, I think it's almost necessary. On the other hand, I'm also in Comp Sci 201 right now, and I'd say it's more like 75/25 with 25 percent active learning. Our professor will lecture on something, and then he'll say, "Here's an assignment."
We'll split up into groups of three in the large lecture hall, and we'll work together. That facilitates when you need to learn skills, like applicable skills. You get time to learn the theory, and then you get time to apply.
Participant:  Did you take into account Chem 101 labs, where you do experiments? I know that in Bio 201, it's like at the very beginning, they do the lecture, but then you do the lab experiment. They don't tell you all the instructions. Is Chem 101 similar?
Participant:  Yeah. We do it a lot more than so.
Participant:  Would you say that's more active learning?
Participant:  Yeah, you're probably right. It is closer to 75/25.
Participant:  I think you're on the right track when you say that, especially in the introductory science courses, it's really important to have a lot of lecture, because you're trying to cover a lot of material.
The active learning discussion type things may be more helpful for discussing an idea or something like that, but there's not a whole lot of idea discussion when you're talking about basic science principles. They're established. There's not a whole lot of conversation that needs to happen around them.
Participant:  Going off that, actually, having demonstrations or something like that, some sort of visual activity incorporated into that...I guess if we're sticking with Chem, we could do Le Chatelier's rule, which is a very theoretical thing, but you could demonstrate, like, "Hey, if I decrease the volume of a container then something happens.
When I took Intro Chem here, actually, I did Chem 110. That's what he did. He had a container with some gases in it, and he squeezed it, and the container turn brown, so you know that a reaction happened because the pressure had changed. You were still watching, and it was still a lecture setting, but there's something active and something you could directly observe, which gave a lot to the lecture.
Participant:  The physical aspect of being in a lecture hall, it's very hard to create that into a collaborative active learning group type setting. It's just very conducive towards 100 percent lecture. I'm also in Chem 101, and the demonstrations do add a little bit of variety to the lectures.
I think if they could perhaps do maybe 50 minutes Monday, Wednesday, Friday, versus the current schedule, which is Tuesday, Thursday, which is 75 minutes each, it might...Because long lectures are very hard to sit through, and you lose a lot of focus halfway through. They don't always break it up with demonstrations. Those are only every couple weeks or so.
Maybe the current format is OK, but shortening the time of each lecture, something like that.
Participant:  For me, I agree with a lot of what's been said about how, especially in intro to science classes, there's a lot of materials. You have to get through that. More weighted towards lecture would be more conducive to learning science at a basic level. But also, just talking about active learning, I've seen different types of active learning or what you'd categorize as active learning in different science classes.
For example, in Bio 201, we not only had labs, but then sometimes, just after every quiz, basically, we would have an individual portion, and then you'd break up into your teams and then take the quiz with them. The idea was that you be able to discuss and work out and finally agree on one answer for each question.
I guess it really depended on, from group to group, the kind of dynamics. Some groups might have had just one person who really studied and really got the material, maybe had biology before, and thus dominated discussion, basically. A big part and difference between lectures and active learning is that you have to do active learning well.
That is, you have to make the groups work well together. You have to make the activities actually add something. Whereas for lectures, I guess you could say it's a lot simpler, in terms of planning for it, because basically, it's just one person, and everyone's getting the same exact experience.
Participant:  A lot of thought has to go into how the groups are composed. I think in classes I've had where we worked in groups, there was a lot of effort done. Usually, a survey was sent out, and people would measure how many experiences they had in that subject matter before, and then they'd create groups that were...
Within the group, there's a lot of diversity, but between the groups, there was roughly the same.
Participant:  That's a really good point, because I've been in groups before where our discussion ended up instead of helping us understand the concepts, if two or three of us had a misconception about a concept, and then we discussed it enough, it would just reinforce the misconception, not only with ourselves, but with everyone.
I like to have fairly lecture heavy classes like that, because then we're not reinforcing false information, ever. That becomes much more likely when you're trying to learn a basic science from someone who's also trying to learn a basic science.
Bridgette:  We also were wondering, just in terms of active learning, for all of you, which types if any    but it sounds like most of you have    have been used in your introductory STEM courses. Just some examples of active learning are like when the teacher uses clickers or you have discussions, if you debate in the class.
There could be role play, which I don't know how you'd [inaudible 12:18] the examples you've been using. In class projects or in class writing assignments, even just a teacher stopping every once in a while in a lecture just to ask if anyone has any questions and really wait for everyone to answer.
I'm just curious about what you guys have experienced. Not necessarily how you felt about it, but just what have been in your introductory STEM courses.
Participant:  I'll go first. I'm going to talk about Physics 141 and Bio 201. In Physics 141, the lecture is just a lecture with Dr. Edwards. Then, afterwards, on Thursday and Friday, you have a recitation session, where you have about an hour and a half of meeting up with your group and you go over the homework problems or problems that the professor or TA can help you with.
Then, afterwards, you take a quiz. That's always interesting, because I don't really learn anything from the lectures. Then, during recitation, I just cram everything because my group's helping me out, and then I take the quiz.
Here at Duke, I've mainly seen a lot of thought put into trying to create active learning, where you can struggle on the problems, but then there's always someone there to help you out. Like in Bio 201, during the lectures, sometimes they will take a pause, put up a multiple choice question, and then you have to talk with your seat members like what the right answer is.
Then, someone like Adan will go up and take the mic and tell everyone what the answer is. I always find that really interesting because it's a really big lecture, and you have to wait for a student to talk. They might get it wrong, and then it's taking up so much time. But I think that's really good because it wakes everyone up inside the lecture hall.
You feel a dynamic shift within the hall, and you wake up like, "Should I be participating or something?" I also feel like if you're able to struggle with a problem and go through the process of thinking like, "How would I get to my answer?" and then they tell you the right answer? You're like, "Yeah, maybe I should have gone through that process instead."
It really helps you reinforce good habits for next time, so that you're able to make that mental gap and learn new material faster, later on in the lecture.
Participant:  I agree with that. In Comp Sci 201, I have Professor Forbes. About three quarters of the way through the lecture, he'll give us an assignment, and then by the end of the class, we'll have to turn it in. But the lecture's only maybe like 60 people, although it should be 170 something. That's not a good number to be using.
But because it's so small, while we're working on that in class assignment, we can ask questions. We can ask each other questions. Then, by the time the end of the class is there, you've either gotten the assignment or at least you're pretty grounded in the theory and you can get it outside of class. Or you can ask the professor.
Having that active learning intermixed with the theory really does help.
Participant:  I think the waking up cannot be understated. [laughs] We did bio together, and it was first thing in the morning for most people. You could tell every time a question came around, maybe 20 percent of the class was jolted awake. Obviously, it's better to be conscious when you're in lecture, [laughs] but just the dynamic shift that Alex mentioned I think was very important.
That people started...It got them more involved, in the sense that they weren't just thinking about lecture concepts, but they were also thinking about how they would apply those concepts to actually solve a problem.
Participant:  I just want to comment on something that Alex said about    because I'm also in the same physics class    and I find it interesting that you learn most of your material from the recitation, because I feel like it's the opposite for me.
Not that I don't learn anything from recitation, but it's more like I learn a lot from lecture and then some of the stuff that might have seemed confusing or that I didn't really pick up on because everything was just going by too quickly, I usually pick up in recitation, not only because it's another person going over it again, but it's also because it's another person.
They have a different style of teaching, and maybe if one way of working the problem didn't really get itself cemented in my mind, the next way could. Or it might work better for me. I guess this might not just be this difference between active learning and lecture, but having different types of learning makes it more probable that one of these ways is going to be successful in teaching you, as a student.
Participant:  The way I took Physics 141, it was a, I suppose, mostly flipped classroom. I wouldn't call it entirely flipped. But our day to day lecture class period was only about 20 minutes of lecture, and then we were divided up into groups of about five or six that we kept throughout the semester. Then, in those groups, we would discuss in class practice problems.
Then, in the last 10 or 15 minutes of class, the professor would go over the answer to those problems and explain how you would go through the math of that. Almost every single class was very active learning based. With every new concept, so almost every lecture, we had a demonstration of some sort.
We would have different balls rolling down hills and be like, "Look, the heavy one didn't go any faster." Stuff like that. Then, the recitation, instead, was the least active learning. It was our time period to just work on our practice problems or our homework problems that were due at the end of lecture.
Rather than having someone new explaining the concepts, it was just we worked, and if we had a question, the professor was there and you answered our questions. There was no new perspective being gained. It was just basically time to work on the homework with the professor available, like class wide office hours.
I personally learned a good bit in that class. I feel like I know basic physics now. But I know a lot of the other people in my group did not like that, that principle. They felt like they were being left to teach themselves physics far too much. They were not able to teach themselves physics because they didn't have enough time being taught what physics.
They relied on the lecture to know the basic facts, and then when they only had a tiny amount of basic fact presentation, when they got to the practice problems, the in class problems, they were just waiting on the rest of their group to fill in the gaps that they didn't know, and then it didn't really soak up.
Bridgette:  Our next area of questions is we're curious about how these different teaching techniques affect the confidence level of students.
What we want to know is just think about how confident you feel about being able to get the grade that you want in an introductory STEM course and how was your confidence in your abilities to get the grade you want, how would that be affected if a teacher was just lecturing.
In this, just disregard labs and recitations. Just think about the lecture itself. How would your confidence be affected by just a lecture, or if there was also active learning involved? Or would there be a difference in confidence at all?
Participant:  If a professor did an example, say on a chalkboard, would that be active learning? Or would it be lecture?
Bridgette:  It would still be lecture if they did an example. With active learning, it can be something as small as just taking five minutes and saying, "Think about what I've been teaching. Do you understand it?" If you don't, then they'll go back through it again. It's pretty much anything that directly involves you, so you can't just be sitting there, not thinking about what's happening.
Participant:  I feel like having that active learning component would raise my confidence, because I guess if it's just lecture and a professor doing problems over and over on the board, it doesn't really give you a chance to see whether or not you'd be able to do the problems if they weren't worked out for you.
But there are certain caveats to that, because some classes which are primarily lecture or basically all lecture, the professors will posts practice problems from previous years, stuff like that. That also gives you the opportunity outside of class to work on problems that the professor obviously thought were worthy to put on an exam before.
If you're able to work through those, then you can work up this confidence level that you'll be able to do well on the tests, as well. But having an active learning component kind of forces you, because you're going to be attending the lectures to make that step, whereas if it's just lecture, it's up to you really, whether or not to open up those practice problems and try to work through them.
I guess active learning forces you to do what you can also do you, yourself, I'd say.
Participant:  I would say that complete lecture would not raise my confidence level, but complete active learning would not raise my confidence level. It has to be some kind of happy medium in between, because the lecture gives you confidence because you know that the professor is going to be giving you true information or factual information.
And you can take that as fact. You don't have to try to dig through misconceptions by yourself. But the active learning component forces you to take a step forward and work through problems by yourself and to think about it, so that gives you a little more practice for when you have to take on problem sets or when you're doing tests. You've already put yourself in that mindset.
I would say it has to be both.
Participant:  I agree with that. I would like a lot of lecture, I think, but I would still need at least some active learning. I want to soak up as much information as I can and then have at least some opportunity to do it myself, like not be walked through an example problem, but be given the opportunity to try to do whatever we've been doing in class on my own.
Even if I fail, then that's still confidence boosting to me. Failing and then seeing how I failed on my own is way more important than just continuing to learn new stuff, I think, as far as confidence goes.
Participant:  I think a common pitfall is that there will be a professor in front of 120 students, and then they'll ask a question to the whole crowd. Nobody says anything, because everyone's too scared of being wrong. Or even if they're pretty sure they're right, they don't want to say anything, because it's a little embarrassing.
What ends up happening very often...I'm taking Orgo 1 now. This is a fairly big problem in that class. There's usually three or four people who ask and answer all of the questions in the class. [laughs] I think having small groups to break into is really useful. I think for most people have no problem failing in front of...Removing the negative connotation of failure.
Making a mistake in front of 2 to 5 people is much better than 120.
Participant:  I agree. It's also nice if the active learning breaks up lecture. With Chem 101, I absolutely agree, 75 minutes of lecture is just ridiculously long for the class. I like chemistry, but not enough for me to not doze off at some point, towards like 60 minutes.
If you maybe 30 or 40 minutes in, break it up with an example, and see like, "Do we understand everything up to this point?" And then maybe end with another one, so you can see like, "How much did I learn during this lecture? Am I comfortable with it? What do I need to work on?"
Bridgette:  Actually, some of the things you guys have brought up make me curious. With active learning, do you find it to be more effective in smaller lecture sizes than larger ones? Or what's been your experience with that?
Participant:  Definitely smaller lecture sizes. Even if it's a large lecture, dividing into small groups is a lot more effective, I think.
Participant:  I agree. For my com sci lecture, since there's really only like maybe 60 or 70 who ever come. You're totally comfortable with just shouting out the professor's name and saying, "I need help with this." But a big lecture, I don't know. It's hard to see it happening.
Participant:  My only case with using a big lecture active learning would be Bio 201, where just one person says the answer, but I have accidentally sat into the Econ class, where they have structured three person groups, and they work on it, and then he pops up sticks for the person to go up and talk.
I think in a big lecture setting, I think that would be the best.
Participant:  You mean randomly chooses?
Participant:  Yeah. Sorry.
Participant:  I would say you want to keep the volunteer basis of that. Even though you run into the pitfall of only the people who are really confident speaking up, knowing that I might be called if I don't know something is way too stressful.
[laughter]
Participant:  That's not worth it.
Bridgette:  Our next area of questions we'd also like to know how getting feedback from others and your teacher about your work in a class is affected by teaching styles. Once again, think back on your introductory STEM courses or think on them, if you're currently taking them.
Aside from formal assessments, such as your midterms or exams or your homework assignments, we want to know what other ways you get feedback about how you're doing in a class. When your professor was giving a lecture, how much feedback did you feel like you were getting about how you were doing? Not just from your grades, but just in general.
Participant:  Does the feedback have to come during the lecture period?
Bridgette:  Are you talking like going to office hours or something?
Participant:  Right.
Bridgette:  You can talk about that if you want.
Participant:  For Math 111, which I'm in right now, the math help room is incredibly helpful, because they're open 1:00 to 10:00 on weekdays. That's great because you can engage with both the other instructors that are teaching other sections of the course and your own instructor and get individualized feedback.
I think it's a lot more useful to have, again, the small group feedback or individual feedback, rather than in a large group.
Participant:  Also, another type of feedback, which is basically only possibly in active learning, is peer feedback, because you have smaller groups, and you're actually working with them. Whereas in a hundred percent lecture class, obviously your peers won't know what you know or how you behave in class and stuff like that.
But I guess the peer feedback also allows you to know where you stand on different things, besides just knowledge of the material, things such as how you work in a group and stuff like that. That's just another dimension, I guess, which is gained by having that active learning aspect.
Participant:  I always feel very confident when another student asks me a question about something in the course and I can answer it, I can explain something. That way, I know I really understand it. Or if I can't answer, then it's [inaudible 28:15] but I'd have to go back and study some more, which is also good. It's helpful information.
Participant:  I think with straight 100 percent lecture classes, for example in multi, your feedback comes when you get a test. It's either a 49 or a 94.
[laughter]
Participant:  And you realize, "I knew this," or "I didn't." Because it's just a lecture. You can go to office hours, I guess, but it's a lecture. There's three midterms, and then there's a final. That's your feedback. I feel like in some of those classes, it's hard to get feedback from a lecture, but you can make it work.
You can get feedback from how you do on homework, but it's definitely more difficult.
Participant:  I'd like to mention the peer question thing. One thing that I think is lacking from introductory STEM classes would be like Piazza. I'm taking Bio Chem currently. This is Coggins's first year of using Piazza. I feel like it's a super different dynamic because no longer does it feel like it's like a lecture, where it's a competition.
If people have questions about lecture, they will put it on Piazza, and you can gauge your level of understanding by saying like, "I probably know the answer to this one. I definitely know the answer to this one. I would like to see this one answered."
You can see like, "Other people have the same questions as me," which isn't always the case in introductory STEM classes, because there's such a wide scale of where prior knowledge of people who come in. You might think, if you sit around certain people, that, "These people are way smarter than me." I'm like, "I never would have the confidence of asking a really stupid question."
But in Piazza, you can do it anonymously. Peer review questions are a good way.
Participant:  Piazza is a different form, as well, because in active learning, usually, you'll be breaking up into small groups. It's anything but anonymous. You're working with the same group members. They get to know you. You get to know them. Any question that you ask will be attributed to you, and they'll know that you asked it.
But then on Piazza, you have the option of remaining anonymous. That's also something that maybe in a lecture hall, you might feel self conscious asking a question, but on Piazza, you're able to do it, and you're anonymous to everyone except for the professors. Just something I wanted to throw in.
Participant:  I've used Piazza in a few classes and I've really liked it every time. I think it's a perfect mix of group learning, but also your group learning benefiting the entire lecture.
Bridgette:  What you guys like a lot about it is that it is anonymous, if you want it to be? With Piazza, everyone can see if you ask a question, right?
Participant:  Mm hmm.
Bridgette:  On that same subject, you guys have talked about office hours and held hours. If you think back on your courses, I'm curious if was there any kind of teaching technique that made you feel more comfortable approaching your professor?
With active learning or lecture, did you feel like you had a better relationship with the teacher, or was it just random and based on the teacher's characteristics or anything?
Participant:  I think one thing that Qiu Wang did well in Orgo 1...I guess it isn't introductory, but it was the first chem class I took.
Bridgette:  No, it still counts.
Participant:  I think I skipped class for an entire month, and then I came to office hours, and she was like, "Alex, where have you been? I'm glad you came." I was like, "You remember my name? That's pretty impressive." Then, from then on, I had a pretty good relationship with Qiu Wang.
Her ability to be able to call out on people's names during lecture and during office hours was a huge [inaudible 32:20] . It really solidified that relationship with her, and I felt more comfortable approaching her.
Participant:  I'm curious. How big was that class?
Participant:  Like 140. It was all freshmen.
Bridgette:  Was it pretty much all lecture, or was there active learning, where she would have had a chance to interact with you? Or was she just that good with names?
Participant:  She was just that good with names. Otherwise, lecture was lecture, where she just told us the concepts and then gave out examples. Baldwin's pretty OK with that, too.
Participant:  But it is pretty nice when the professor actually knows your name. You feel a lot more comfortable going up and asking them a question. I think active learning ensures that that happens. In lecture, when it's 150 other kids, sometimes you feel like, "I don't want to go in and waste their time. I barely even know them."
For example, chemistry, it's easier for me to go to a TA or to their helper hours because I know them, and I see them every week, and we talk in the class, as opposed to the actual professor office hours.
Participant:  What Steven Craig did when I took his Chem 110, one year ago, he had two TAs in class with him at all times. Every class, we'd have groups, and we'd do problems with the group. He wouldn't move on to continue with the lecture until every single group had been visited, either by himself or by a TA.
They'd just check in, and if we had a problem with something, they would help us. Basically, there was an opportunity for some smaller scale interaction in every single class. You felt comfortable addressing everyone, all the instructors, and they felt comfortable talking to you. It was a very collaborative atmosphere, almost. That was very good. That was very, very effective, I think.
Bridgette:  You'd say that it made you feel more confident in your abilities in the class to have that relationship?
Participant:  Yeah. I think it made us feel more confident because we ended up knowing the material a lot better because we were never embarrassed about anything. It was very natural for us to go ask for help, even if we were only a little bit unsure, which was very helpful.
Participant:  Even without the professor memorizing 150 names who are going in their lecture, I think when they joke around or just feel more human in their lecturing, like they make jokes or they talk about recent events, like, "Did you see the basketball game last night?" before they talk to do their lecture or something like that.
Just knowing that your professor's a person, rather than just an ivory tower fountain of knowledge...
[laughter]
Participant:  That makes them a lot more approachable for things like office hours or asking questions after lecture, something like that.
Participant:  I would just say something similar to that. When you feel like the professor is invested not only in providing you with information, but you as a person and your mood and your well being, that just makes for such a better atmosphere in the classroom and more conducive for participation, when they ask for people to answer questions.
Bridgette:  We're also curious, you guys have touched on this a couple different times with the other questions, but if you think about your interactions with your peers    especially during class time, but it could also be outside of class    how do those interactions with your peers, especially during class, affect your experience in the course?
Participant:  I don't talk about my courses out of my class.
Bridgette:  Out of class? [laughs] How about during class? I guess just thinking about your introductory STEM courses, just think about what classes made, either through the way the class was taught, that forced you into more peer interaction or if it was a big lecture or even big active learning, and you didn't have much peer interaction.
How did that affect your feelings about the course or your confidence in the course or anything like that?
Participant:  I think it's very easy in a lot of our lecture courses, which describes most intro STEM courses. It's very easy to feel like a small fish in this large sea of straight A machines who are all going to beat you on the exam, and you'll get a terrible grade, and it sucks. [laughs]
Just having 5 minutes of class or 10 minutes of class where you are interacting with some of the other fish and figuring out that they're also struggling or that they can help and that usually they're pretty nice [laughs] is just relaxing, I think. It's an opportunity for people to learn from each other and teach each other.
As far as just feelings about the course goes, it take a lot of stress off when you've kind of got to know other people in the class.
Participant:  I would say that classes that tend to be more active learning, like my math course    it's a pretty good mix of lecture and active learning    you form more relationships in class which you carry out of class. After class, you'll say, "Do you want to meet up to work on this problem set later on?"
Whereas in lecture, you're never talking to the people next to you, so you're not going to form those relationships and have those experiences out of class. Definitely, when there's an active learning component. But lecture, it has the added benefit of adding peer interaction outside of class, as well.
Participant:  I think some dangerous to avoid with that sort of thing is only talking to a few people or talking to a different person every time, because when you don't know someone, I feel like the default personality to adopt when you talk to someone else in your class is just, "I have no idea what's going on. OMG, this class is so hard. I'm so screwed for the test" kind of mentality.
That only serves, at least in my case, to make me feel more stressed. Nobody knows what's going on. How could I possibly know what's going on? But if you have a friend in the class, and you talk to that one person all the time or something like that, then you're more comfortable actually talking out the details of "I understand this, but not this."
Bridgette:  So when somebody talking to you doesn't understand, that makes you feel more panicked than more like you're in tune with everyone else?
Participant:  Right. It's like you feel like everyone's a straight A machine, but then everyone you actually individually talk to is also panicked. That's the worst possible combination of inducing stress to me.
You either need to know everyone a little bit and know that everyone is stressed, or get to know one person in particular really well, or I guess a small group, like we were talking about earlier. Just know that you are slowly learning these things. You are developing in this class.
Bridgette:  Anyone else?
Participant:  It's a good point. [laughs] I think this was already mentioned by you before, but I guess a lot of the asking questions that happens between peers also helps because you're not just one brain working out these problems and trying to learn the material.You have more than one person.
The stuff that they don't know might be the stuff that you don't know, but you never knew that you didn't understand it very well. It's not only putting two brains together to teach each other the material, but also teaching each other what you don't know or what you don't understand as clearly as you thought you did. That's a helpful thing.
Bridgette:  When you have that closer peer relation and you can communicate about what you do and don't know, would that make you feel more comfortable asking a question in class, if you feel like other students also need that question? I guess you guys sort of referenced with Piazza.
Participant:  Yeah.
Bridgette:  It would? Does anyone else feel similarly?
Participant:  Could you just clarify?
Bridgette:  We're talking about how you guys have said that if you have a closer relationship with a person or a group of people in that class, then you feel more comfortable being honest with them about what you do and don't know. I guess you said sometimes it makes you feel worse.
Participant:  Right. You can't halfway know some people. You either know a couple people a lot or know everyone a little. Does that make sense?
Bridgette:  So the peer relations in class are pretty complex?
Participant:  Yeah.
Bridgette:  Do you think that the peer relationships are different if it's an active learning or lecture course? You do?
Participant:  If they're your friend going to lecture, then you know them. But if they're not, you're not going to start talking while the professor's talking. The professor is always talking.
[laughter]
Participant:  There's only so much time to develop a relationship. Whereas if it's active learning, then you're both struggling with the same problem, and you're going to eventually work together, hopefully. That fosters some level of relationship, and it makes you a little bit more comfortable in class.
Participant:  I definitely agree with that.
Bridgette:  So the relationships that are built through active learning, you would say they are helpful, even though you wouldn't necessarily be close with that person outside of class?
Participant:  Yeah, I think so. Definitely.
Bridgette:  But with lecture...I'm curious. What's more helpful for you, having a friend you knew beforehand that's in lecture or having someone in active learning you don't know as well but you guys are forced into working together?
Participant:  I'd still probably say the friend outside of class. Often, you'll be able to go over, and you'll sit in their dorm for however long, and you'll just study together. Whereas I feel like, at least in STEM classes, when you meet someone, you know them for the duration of the class. Once you walk out the door, they're just somebody who was in that class with you.
Bridgette:  You don't often form a closer bond outside of class with people who you're in groups with in class, generally? No?
Participant:  No. Nobody I met in Bio 201 is now like my lifelong friend. [laughs] But I do have lifelong friends that were with me in Bio 201. There he is. [laughs]
Bridgette:  Would you feel comfortable asking people that you'd met through active learning to meet with you outside of class and work? Or is that not generally something that happens?
Participant:  I don't think I ever have.
Participant:  It's happened to me a couple times. Especially, you can't count on everyone in the lecture having their own friend in lecture with them. I feel like forcing the group conversation, actually just dividing people into groups so that at least everyone has their group to talk to, I feel like that's still beneficial.
Even if you don't have a best friend in the class with you, at least you have people that you have talked to before.
Bridgette:  Which I guess would be pretty important for introductory STEM courses, which are often taken early.
Participant:  I frequently would stay before or after class for like five minutes, just to talk to someone about something, even if people I had met in the course. Just clarify one practice problem with them or something like that.
Participant:  I would say in my math course, I would feel pretty comfortable asking anyone that I worked with to meet outside of class. Maybe it's by virtue of us mostly being freshmen and just wanting to form more relationships. But if we have a group meeting for 10 or 12 lessons in math class, and we just send each other messages and ask to meet up.
That's been a really good tool to help us all mutually excel in the class more.
Participant:  Are you taking any other STEM classes currently?
Participant:  Math 111 and Chem 101.
Participant:  Have you done that for Chem 101?
Participant:  No. [laughs] Again, I think that's by virtue of the huge lecture versus the 25 person active learning styles of the classes.
Participant:  I think in Orgo 1, I struggled in that class because I didn't know anyone. Even though we had lab sessions, I didn't meet up with those people after or out of class. In bio chem, I tried to change that. I went into bio chem with friends, but they weren't doing so hot in the class, as well.
I actually did reach out to other people who I kind of knew in class but weren't friends with them. Now, I study with them. It was only after the introductory STEM class I realized, "I actually do need to reach out to these people in class that I kind of know but I'm not friends with." That helped me out in bio chem.
If I knew that in Orgo 1, I would definitely have had the confidence to approach those people.
Participant:  I know it's not really an introductory science course, but the chemistry majors, once we got past the introductory courses where it was a lot of non chemistry majors in the class, we would form group meetings or Facebook group messages where we would constantly talk to each other.
By this point, more or less, everyone knows everyone else, even if we're not great friends. We'll talk out problems and we'll arrange times to meet, like in the end or something like that. Someone says, "I've reserved this room. Anyone who wants to study, feel free to come by." Even if it's a 60 person lecture, at this point, we at least recognize everyone in that 60 person lecture.
We feel comfortable working with any of those 60 people. I feel like that's a really good thing we have going, where it's like you may not know everyone really well, but you're still really comfortable working with anyone. That can be hard to develop in a one semester introductory course.
Bridgette:  We've talked a lot about the peer relationships in lecture or active learning within lecture. Has there ever been a time where peer interaction has been detrimental to you? Or has it pretty much always been a positive experience?
Participant:  I think sometimes, at least for me in chemistry. If I asked the person next to me a question, or if I say, "Dr. Roy meant this, didn't he?" It feels like sometimes they'll just automatically say yes, whether or not they know what he was talking about. Then I'll look back and I'll see what I was asking him is actually not true.
But I think people just have a tendency to want to be able to give some kind of response, as opposed to "I don't know."
Participant:  Like the situation I brought up earlier. In my Physics 141 class, when we had the little bit of lecture and lot of bit of the group discussion, it happened two or three times in that class, where we would have some kind of misconception about how something works because something in the lecture may not have been explained super clearly or even if there's just a typo in one person's notes.
Something like that. Then we would reinforce that misconception by talking it out with each other. That was definitely a detriment.
Bridgette:  Most of the detriments you guys seemed to have faced have just been miscommunication or propagating ideas that aren't correct. It's never been that you've felt judged by your classmates or anything like that? No?
Participant:  Sometimes you ask someone, and they just don't seem like they want to answer. That's obviously experience, but sometimes people aren't willing to share and have their [inaudible 48:50] .
Bridgette:  They're not willing to share as in they don't want to help you?
Participant:  Yeah. They don't want to help you, either because it's too much time, or they don't want to say they don't know. You don't know.
Bridgette:  So not in a competitive way?
Participant:  It could be in a competitive way. Sometimes I feel like it's that way, but that could just me being like, "You're not telling me. Why aren't you telling me?" I'm sure they have their own reasons for not saying anything. That's just like interaction with anyone.
Participant:  I have an experience which is kind of like what you were saying about propagating this misconceptions, but then it's kind of more about...Sometimes I build relationships with someone in class, and we ask each other the questions about the course material and to make sure that we understand it.
But sometimes there are people or students who get a bit too stressed out about the material, like they understand it fairly well, but then they get way too deep into the minutiae, into things that weren't discussed in class at all, and they really wanted to understand it. They for some reason think that I or their peers will know the answers to every question that they have.
It can get you much more worried about the class than you really need to be, because you get the sense that you need to know all these things, even though you never really even thought about them before, just because someone else thought they'd need to know about them and they asked you. That's one of the detriments, I guess, to building these peer relationships.
Their worries become your worries.
Participant:  I'd like to build on that. That definitely is the most stressful part about active learning. Sometimes you have questions for someone else, but people have questions for you. You're just like, "I understand you're asking me this question, but my importance is on this factor of the section that we're looking on."
You're just like, "Do I want to answer this person? Do I want to more focus on getting my questions answered?" Then you're just like, "Wait. What happens if this person is talking about things that are going to be on the test, and maybe I'm just focusing on minutiae that won't be on the test?" It's really stressful. You're just like, "What should I focus on right now? What should I be studying?"
Bridgette:  Looking back on your experiences, did you feel more confident in a class if you had a good relationship with your peers or if you had a good relationship with your professor? If you can think of a situation where that would have been a direct comparison.
Participant:  I think they were about equally important for me. Not just STEM courses, even.
Participant:  I wouldn't just say professors, but also TAs and other instructors.
Participant:  For me, since we do a lot of our practical work or active learning with TAs, I think it was definitely the TAs.
Bridgette:  What about the TAs is so helpful? Just that there are more of them? Or is it that they're generally younger?
Participant:  They're really easy to access. They're sophomores and juniors or seniors. It's just not hard to talk to them. Plus, yeah, there's definitely a lot more. There's one professor. I know, for example, in computer science, there's maybe 20 TAs.
Bridgette:  How big is the lecture for that one?
Participant:  It's hard to get a real sense. I don't think the lecture hall is actually being as full as it should be.
Participant:  Most people stay home.
Participant:  Yeah, because you can always just skip a midterm and then put that part of the grade towards your final. You really don't have to come in until the final for the class, if you don't want to. I think that would be bad.
Bridgette:  That actually brings up another question. You say it's common for people to skip lectures. In your experience    I don't know if you guys skip class that often    but are you more likely to skip if it is active learning or if it's lecture?
Participant:  Lecture.
Participant:  Lecture.
Participant:  Lecture..
Bridgette:  Is that because of accountability, or you don't feel you are learning as much? What's behind that decision?
Participant:  Accountability.
Participant:  Yeah.
Participant:  Because there's greater portions in class, so you pretty much have to show up in order to get a good grade.
Participant:  I look forward to working with it, I think.
Bridgette:  Really?
Participant:  Yeah.
Participant:  With lectures, you can not show up and nobody will know the difference, so it feels a lot easier to just not be there. I know for chemistry, if you don't go to lecture, he teaches essentially the materials straight out of the textbook, so you can just read the textbook.
Participant:  Yeah, I think. I don't know if you have the 8:30 class.
Participant:  I don't have the 8:30 class.
Participant:  We just don't have anybody come to chemistry, really. He always makes jokes about it, but we have very few people come there. I don't actually know how much it affects the grades in the class. We had one test, the last one, where when you talked about something that was going to be on the test. We had a really bi modal score frequency chart. He was like, "There's group in the 30 out of 50 range who likely stayed home, and like 40 out of 50 likely listened to the answers I gave that were on the test."
Bridgette:  Even if it's taught out of the book, does attending a lecture generally help your grades?
Participant:  Yeah.
Participant:  Yes.
Participant:  It helps me.
Participant:  But I heard from some of my classmates that they learn better just reading than they do in lecture. They show up to lectures sometimes, but then they don't really pay attention at all. They're just there just to be there, just in case the professor says something like, "This is a question that's going to be on the test," for some reason.
But most of the time, they don't really care about what's happening in lecture. They just take the time to read over the book and the material on their own. It depends on person to person.
Participant:  I wouldn't agree with that. I definitely study a lot better when I'm just reading the textbook, like taking notes with it, but I go to lecture because it just familiarizes myself with hearing the terms and seeing them put into context, and of course, if he says something that's going to be on the exam. That's just hedging my best.
Participant:  I know a lot of people that study that way, but I'm definitely the opposite. I go to every single lecture and listen really carefully the whole time, and then only crack open my book when I don't understand something that was mentioned or when he says, "This chapter will be on the test, but I'm not going to lecture on it." Something like that.
I only use my book as a last resort, to reinforce something that I may not have understood in lecture, and do the majority of my learning just by listening in lecture.
Participant:  It's the same for me. I use my book mostly for practice problems.
Participant:  The only time where it has not been beneficial to go to class for me would be Bio 201, because it was recorded. That means even though I skipped lecture, I could actually still attend lecture, but at double the speed and...
[laughter]
Participant:  ...I could skip the active learning portions, and I could get all the information from the lecture. I can get all the information from the lecture. And I was more awake, because I watched it at night, but now all my classes, like Stat 111, Physics 141, they're not recorded, so I have to attend lecture, otherwise I don't learn the material.
If it's recorded, then I don't feel bad about missing lecture. I need to go to lecture to get a better grade, but for Bio 201, it was OK for me to miss lecture.
Participant:  I thought I was like that in theory for a while. I found out that even when I'm paying attention on a lecture on a screen, I just learn less. I haven't really figured out why. Just something about being physically present seemed to help.
Bridgette:  We're just about out of time. We've learned a lot from what you guys have said, especially about your peer interactions and what motivates you and how relationships affect you. Our purpose was just to learn about what you guys thought of different teaching styles used in the introductory STEM courses.
Just if there's anything you can think of that we may have missed in the discussion, you can bring it up now. Or if you feel like we pretty much covered everything, then that's fine, too. Good?
Thank you so much. We have your gift cards, and we also need to have each of you fill out a confirmation that you've received it, which is going to be your name, signature, and your Duke Unique ID.
There's that. Does anyone not have a pen that needs one?
Participant:  Yes.
Bridgette:  Thank you.
Participant:  Thank you.
Participant:  Thank you.
Participant:  Thanks.
Participant:  Thanks.
[background noise]
Bridgette:  Thanks. I just had an irrational fear that it wasn't recording, but we're good. [laughs]
Participant:  Anybody else still need a pen?
Participant:  No.
Bridgette:  Once you're done, you can take your gift card with you.
Jocelyn:  And take more food.
Bridgette:  Please take more pizza if you're hungry, or if you're not hungry, take it anyway. [laughs]
Participant:  Do you want these back?
Bridgette:  Yeah, that would be great. I guess if you just want to leave your form that you signed there, we can just grab them as you leave.
